Does anyone else play around with simulators? I’m not at a stage in life where I can afford a large yet, also not currently working as a machinist so I often just play on this simulator to make sure I don’t forget my craft. Also the crashes don’t cost me anything on here. 😅r/MachinistsWhy TF can't we post videos anymore?How do you say it because I keep hearing it differently.And Haas is like Hozz, not Hass. It's a hill I'll die on you hassholesDoes anyone have any good tutorials on the ezguide I for fanuc? Specifically engraving on a lathe with live tooling. I’m running a doosan puma 2600sy with a 30-b or 31-b I can’t remember at the moment. I’m trying to get it to engrave parts on the face so in the Z axis. Any help is appreciated.Update: I got it to write letters. I’m guessing I need to choose xy for cutting plane and then run it.I've been Machining for about 12 years now. In that time I have never actually ran a HAAS, everything has been Fanuc and Yasnac (well, one Mazatrol and one Okuma, but I didn't do set ups on them). Makino, Matsuura, at one point a Mori Seiki and Akira Seiki, a Mazak, a couple Okumas. This is the first shop I've been in that actually has a lot of HAAS machines.I'm a set up guy focused on our Matsuuras and can work on the Hyundais we have, but moving over to a HAAS is like learning a different language to me. We're a fairly high volume/production environment, so I don't really have the opportunity to go fumble around on them to get the basics down. Where is a good spot to start for someone that's fairly proficient with Machining in general, but just needs to figure his way around the HAAS control and interface before starting to set them up?I would like to be able to switch the input of programs from the memory card to the rs232 port and I believe it's just a parameter I have to change but I'm not sureI'm trying to bore a hole using conversational programming using "turning inner rough". I'm running into an error issue. When I run the program it gets to the start point and then stops and shows "tool data isn't defined". When I push a button it changes to "3564 tool data is short". I get the same error if I try to use the boring cycle. Any idea what's going wrong?We are making 12 parts out of 5" long bar on nakamura lathe with fanuc control using Delrin material. Currently operator is adding certain number in Z value after every part-off and go to the next part. And reset z value with every fresh bar.I am looking for solution to combine everything in one program so that we can run all 12 parts in one shot.Bar stock is bigger than thru bore so we cannot use feeder or puller thats why we hold 5" bar in the chuck with 4.5" stickout.Is there a way to use sub program even my WCS is different for each part? (Only Z is vary in this case with lathe) Or any macros available? I hope there's better way then just making 12 different programs and combine togather to run in one shot.Any good suggestions or better idea?I am curious is there a way to change them in machine? I always have to walk to my computer to change tiny things. I don't know the exact model of panel but CNC is from like 2008-2009.This came up while running. No alarms or other indication to clue me in to what it is. Anyone seen this before? ~300 hrs on this unit and we’ve never seen it.At our shop we have a new SMEC lathe with the fanuc oi-tf control and I was wondering if anyone knows a way to run the spindle with the doors open without bypassing the safety interlocks. I know on one of our okumas you can run the spindle with the door open but it's limited to 190 RPM. Is there something similar on these lathes?Fanuc 10T. When I zero return the machine and turn it off and on again, the machine coordinates shift by like 60-70mm. The number the coordinates shift by is around but not exactly the same every time and the machine doesn't actually move when powering off. Also they shift by the same amount if I power it off in some other position, so that they will be always the exact number out of position after a power cycle. If doing it a second time after without homing in between the position is not changed by another 70mm. Then it'll just stay about where it's at.This would not be much of an issue but the position moves so that I will get a soft overtravel alarm when trying to zero return the machine. I moved the soft limit so I can zero it but I want to have it working as it previously did.I have just changed all the batteries the machine has.Wanting to know if it’s possible to use tool grouping on lathes or Swiss machines to help with running lights out. Is it available on lathes or only mills?The machine i use at work cant handle more than 250 kilobytes of programs.That is practically nothing.IIt cant candle more than one dynamic operation at a time.It really has an effect on how i program my parts.What are your guys advice?What compatible problems should i be aware of?It is a Leadwell v30I with a fanuc series OI-MD control from 2006.EDIT PCMCIA CARDCurrently running a (new to me) dmc dl45 with fanuc oi-tf control. Just wondering what fixed form sentences you guys use/ how you have them arranged. I have the basic start of program, g71 g70 and g83 and g92. Obv everyone’s are gonna be different.. I’m new to running cnc lathes and “fake it till you make it” would be an understatement but I noticed these fixed forms really help me throw some quick programs together.I’m in trade school and my teacher has no idea why this is happening. Yes I know I should drop out but I’m literally one semester away from finishing.Reading through some manuals, Aside from servo amp / new machine / new servo setup, where could the spindle and servo waveform trace be useful in machining? Seems like an incredibly useful and technologically advanced option to just have as a one time use function. It seems like its basically a 32 channel oscilloscope built into the CNC.I would imagine you could run it for consistent processes and track a tool break? assuming you don't have a third party monitor.Hello,I’ve got a Mori lathe with a fanuc mf-d4 controller. I’d like to use macro variables to condense my programs significantly since I have to punch everything by hand. Every time I try to write/define a variable “#501=0” or “101=1” for example I get p/s009 error implying it’s a bad address (or something else?) Does anyone have any insight into this?Because of current world problems i'm starting to look more and more at the "ECO" button on the controllpanel. I'm working a fanuc 31i and i'm just wondering what it does. Anyone here who has experience with this?What letters correspond to what variables and can they be used with a G65 or do I have to enable g code aliasing. Thinking about how I’m going about programming an alternate tool number engagement and I’m thinking about using a letter address to assign the alternate tool number to pass through into the sub to check which tool number to use. Is there a chart someone can share, or a reference where to find where these values are stored and where to access them?Hey guys, we got a quasar mill with a the fanuc control as stated in the title and I was wondering if anyone had some resources like programming manuals that they could share? Specifically for the conversational programming.Also what does it want for a measuring condition for a probing cycle?We have a bunch of Korean machines that are less than five years oldI believe it’s a Fanuc i controlWe’re trying to automatically change parts, utilizing the existing tool holdersWe have a stack / column of Blanks with OD/ID (like a big washer)We simply stab through the ID to grab it and place it in the chuckIt seems to work pretty good But I have one major problemI am unable to do anything when grabbing clamping on air or trying to turn on the spindle with the check openI understand this is in place to stop the machine when the material runs outI am trying only to turn on the spindle at low RPM with the coolant on to wash the jaws of chips before automatically putting in the next partI have seen this on bar feeders before where the bar feeder is pushing while the spindle is turning slowly And there’s no alarmI’m not sure what to put in my program to disable sensors temporarilyIve made a impromptu cmm style program to check parts on a production run. Seems to be working fairly well, but I would love to be able to track and record this data. Currently having my final numbers saved to a few 500 series variables. I see there is something out there called MT Gage, so I assume its possible but im sure there's a reason we where quoted 15k to install it on a few makinos. Anyone know or have done this in the past?Hopefully someone can give me some simple specific instructions to restore parametersI have them backed upAnd if I recall doing it before I had to establish communication manuallyThen I could upload my settingsI am not seeing the soft keys that say read or punch after I change the five or 10 things that define my communications parametersI’ve done this on a Fanuc 0 controlNever the 18 TSorry if silly question or if it's been asked too many times and I'm lazy for not looking hard enough, but I'm having a difficult time figuring out what I need to transfer programs to my fanuc controller with a rs232 db25 female port. I imagine a simple usb db25 adapter is sufficient but some sources claim something of a driver is necessary to unpack usb data? I really just want straight answers haha thanksWe have a new DNS DNM4500 with Fanuc FS0i-F PMC Control. We have the male door buckle unbolted. The machine still requires it to be out of the receiver in some situations. Im aware there is a parameter to disable the recognition of the lock. Would anyone happen to know what that is?Yes, we all know that potential dangers removing the locks. No, we are not going to use them.Machine currently displays green with machine power on, yellow on M00/M01/M02/M30, red on alarm. I want to do green while cycle running only, yellow on M00/M01/M02, and lights out with reset afterwords. Anyone know how this works? I have standard stoplight colors.I crashed my dooson lathe and now I have a message that says “No.2031 return to ref position using manual mode” I cannot for the life of me figure out how to get this away so i can run my machine again. Any help would be great thank you!So i'm using using the G76 fanuc 2 line code but i'm having troubles calculating the small diameter which results in my threads being flat(not enough depth). I found a formula thread depth = 0.65 x pitch. Then with the thread depth i use this Initial diameter - thread depth= minor diameter. What i don't get is where he got the number 0.65. Some other guy used a 0.610 or something but it's still not enough depth. Its a M30 x3.5 mm thread. I can manually substract from x until threads are sharp but i wanna do it with a formula. I'm using mm btw.I have an MV-55 with a fanuc control. I've never once used one and neither has anyone in my shop. How do you cold start it? I just want to type some stuff to run in MDI and I can'tWe got new doosan with fanuc controler.Hawe some problems. G49 G05.1 Q1 R1 does nothing to increase speed of motion ( we don't need precision). Machine does exact stop at end of coordinate and is very slow / jerky.In holes,arcs, machine adjust ( slows down) feed rate. Increasing F in program or by turning feed knob does nothing.How can I remove,adjust this?I like when door open lamp doesn't blink after m01,but I like when it's open after m30. Ho to adjust?Doosan is slow to pump trought spindle coolant. Takes 5 or more settings. Can " preload" coolant?Chip conveyer turns on automatically. I really don't like that in drilling cycles ( can't hear insert drills breaking). How to adjust that?Haas pumps coolant in second.I have a machine that’s throwing an error SW0100 causing an APC alarm on the X-Y-Z-A axis. Not sure how to fix this. Please help if anyone can. Thank you!A former employee wrote a bunch of macros to facilitate easier programming at the controller for our Fanuc controls. I am attempting to convert those macros from Fanuc to Tosnuc capable (#'s to V's). I am flipping through manuals to find which is which, but was wondering if someone had a list of comparable values, or at least a nicely list of each controllers variables that would be easier to reference.Hey folks, right off the bat - this is half a "feels bad man" post and half a "I need help post" so if that's not what you're interested in reading, thanks for your time, but go elsewhere for dank machining memes.Long story short, I had a potential partner bail on a job which we were jointly buying a small CNC lathe for - Specifically, an Ozawa OMC-230XThese were custom built machines, my one in particular was used to make bone screws for Johnson and Johnson. I just want to do basic job shop work on it. It's a slant bed, two axis design running Fanuc's 21-T control (fml)Well, that partner bailed, took the work we had lined up and started his own shop and left me hanging with the bill for the machine. It's been sitting for a few months now - and by god I still cant quite get simple tool and origin set up right.It does not have the traditional G54-G59, that was an option apparently back then. Instead it has a work shift. as a whole, I just don't know how to properly set up this machineThe key presses are awkward and unintuitive, and I'm frankly afraid of crashing this thing big time on the first part. It scares me, and I hate having a machine I cant use just lazing about my shop. So I need help.I'm looking for someone who has some 21T experience that can help me learn how to use this thing. I've got transferring programs on and off the control working just fine. I've backed up all the parameters. I just need a little kickstart with some knowledge of best practices to get going. Heck, I'll throw some money at the problem if the help actually does indeed get me up and running.So, that's my plea. Thanks for reading. Here's some more photos - specifically of my machine and the weird unknown spindle nose - bonus points if can figure out what the hell it is. It's not A2-4 or A2-5. Measurements on the imgur post.Asking for some help? I’m starting a job in a week programming and running OKK 3 and 5-axis machines for an aerospace company.My experience has been with Haas and DMG 3+2 machines. Does anyone have any helpful resources they are willing to share?Any regarding probing or vector programming could be useful. Not something I’m super familiar with. Found some stuff youtube and the mastercam forum but not a lot TBH.HI all! I'm searching for learning resources on programming and setting offcenter holes pattern for drilling, tapping, reaming and boring on fanuc cnc lathe. Books, videos, articles, forum thread any would help.Reset hit in middle of pallet change.Does it really matter if I haven't ran a Mazak or Haas. We have a couple Fanucs and a Fadal that has whatever controller at the shop and getting familiar with the layouts never took me long at all. To the other end of it, I've found and shared different features the owner was unaware of.Yet, when I look for a job, you have to have experience on said machine. Got snubbed recently and it's eaten me. Am I wrong to think any modern machinist worth his pay could be handed any new control panel and be able to self teach?G’day!We have a newish DMG MORI CMX1100V, that was unfortunately purchased with the fanuc controller (I would have liked the Siemens controller myself & the 20,000rpm spindle.. alas here we are).We are having issues accessing the USB interface once plugged in. I am wondering if the DMG usb they recommend is encoded some how? Can anyone shed any light on this?The other issue we are having is calling a sub-program from external I/O device (DNC), when the main program is in NC memory. The bible that came with the machine says M198 is the 1/0 sub program call. But it just comes up with an error.Cheers in advance!Happy machining.Hello everyone,I have a FANUC I-Series controller for my DOOSAN DNM5700.I have a large file that won't fit on the CNC memory so I want to use a Card. I got a 128MB compact flash card meant for the memory slot on our machines.So I went into parameter setting and changed my I/O channel to 4. It was originally 9. I then tried to select my memory card and I get a format error. I tried to do a quick format from the control but it said format error.I brought the card back to my computer and decided to format it on the PC. after looking some things up, I decided to use FAT system. Didn't do a quick format.Put my file on card, go to machine, same issue.Tried formatting it as FAT32 and exFAT, same results.Am I missing something? Some videos say to chabge other parameters such as line 138,3030,3404 and 6030.ut I only have the line 6030 and I don't think that would affect the control to read my memory card.Edit: I also saw a video where someone had a FANUC Memory Card programming CD but I don't believe I require thatI am starting a new job soon as a CNC programmer at a new shop. The machines are mostly MAZAK horizontals coupled to a pallettech system.I have some macro experience on Haas and Fanuc controls. My question is do the new Mazak controls interpret Fanuc Macro B the same way or is it a different flavor of code? Are there all sorts of weird quirks and things you must know or can you go straight to programming a Mazak control with the same macro language as Fanuc?I realize it’s probably not 1:1 but I am asking if it’s pretty similar.Lastly are there any programming resources for Mazak macro programming…probing, alignment, tool checks, safety checks, etc.Hey, i am probably switching jobs in the next 3 weeks and moving from a dmg dmu 100p duo with heidenhain 530 to a Hyundai WIA HS6300 with fanuc i4.I've been watching videos and reading about fanuc and at first glance seems that writing manually with fanuc seems pretty slow and tiresome compared to heidenhain, any headups or recomendations?Having trouble getting a useable spot drill/drill cycle out of fusion360. Old fanuc control. All I’m trying to do is spot drill, then peck drill. This is the code for the spot drill but it’s keeps giving me a ps 010 error when it hits the g81 line. I’m not really a lathe or fusion guy and I’m getting kind a confused between g81,g73,g83. Getting similar issues with the peck drilling after this spot drill too, I can post that code also.So I have 2 Miyano Lathes running Fanuc OT controls. Whenever I cycle through a program it runs thru fine, goes back to the home location and cycles back to the top of the program, but it errors out. It doesn't throw an error code up, just like light flashes and I have to hit reset to clear it. Not a huge deal because it only takes about an extra second to do, but gets annoying. Anyone have any ideas what could cause something like this? It's only on the small machine and does it for every program I run, the big machine runs fine.i have a type 2 turning tool (see chart for reference: https://i.imgur.com/JsUJPrg.png), but the preview always shows it in this orientation: https://i.imgur.com/CMc7qam.jpegit's a vcmt insert with a 3 degree rake angle (or clearance angle? 93 degrees from the axis of rotation), 35 degree insert angle, should i define it as such (93) or should i take into account that it's rotated 90 degrees? my intution says i should fill in 93 (which i did) but i'm still not 100% sure if that's correct. or should it be 90+(90-3-35) = 142does this even matter beyond the simulation?Looking for someone with experience with all of the above, but either side can certainly chime in. If you were buying a brand new VMC and had the choice would you choose a Siemens, Heidenhain or a Fanuc I Plus control? For background, I don't really have a background with any of them coming off a Fadal and do not currently have employees.Our Fanuc system was repaired a few days ago after a faulty wiring issue. It was repaired and the machine has been running when all of sudden, this error popped up. Any ideas? Thank you!hello guys, i'm using a DN Solutions Lynx 2600 SY with the Fanuc controli have created a contour in which i define the end to be at Z-4 but the lathe only goes to Z-2.3 and says job done. why? here's the contour:https://i.imgur.com/plnOaqo.jpegi'm using a G1122 cycle (face rough) for it. i thought the cut depth of 2.3 was suspicious so i changed it to a different value but it still only goes to Z-2.3.https://i.imgur.com/R5aYhM0.jpeghttps://i.imgur.com/P91zmc3.jpeghttps://i.imgur.com/MBxcEVy.jpeghttps://i.imgur.com/fPoeH9t.jpegi also tried a G1121 cycle (internal rough, cut depth = 2 mm) for just the lip that i want to removehttps://i.imgur.com/gyd7muU.jpegand it still only went to Z-2.3i did a facing cut beforehand at z0 and i do in fact measure a mere 2.3 mm depthNot even sure if this is the right sub but REM isn't getting back to me and I'm super curious:Is there a way to run a program from the flash drive? Not a part program, but I have a master program that automatically changes a bunch of custom variables for the next job (yay macro programming), and it would just be easier than loading it in, running it, then deleting it.Is there a way to automatically distribute programs from the flash drive to their appropriate paths in the CNC memory (path 1, 2, and 3 in this case), through running a "master program" from the flash drive? For example, if I have my 3 main programs and one sub program for each path on that flash drive, can I run the master program to say "OK O1001 go to path 1, O1002 go to path 2, O1003 go to path 3"?If I have the OFFSET.txt, OFFSET.NC2, and OFFSET.NC3 files on the flash drive, is there a way to automatically load them in to their proper paths without going to the offset page and using the F-INPUT function?I hope this is the right place to get information.Yesterday my coworker was working on a piece and ran the program two times already (lowering the tool on the offset), on the same diameter to get the right tolerance. After that he went to the toilet, came back and started the program again and all of a sudden the tool was cutting 1 millimeter lower than before. We thought there is something wrong with the machine, called service to come check it out. Now he made a fool of himself, because they said the tool wasn't calibrated properly. We suspect someone came while he was gone, went into machine geometry, and lowered tool in there, it takes a few seconds to do that.Now i want to know is there anyway to see history of changes made in machine geometry and if there is an option to lock it down, so no one can screw around. Any tip on how to prevent this would be helpful also.Machine is doosan puma 400 with control panel FANUC series 32i-MODEL A.Hope its understandable, i am unfamiliar with english terms in this area.I'm am making parts on my new lathe (DN Puma 2600 Y II with a Fanuc control) that I used to run on one of my other machines (Haas ST-30Y). For the sake of conversation, I will describe the part as an aluminum tube with engraving on the OD. When the feed rate is higher than 28 IPM on my new machine, it adds or misses some of the contours of the text. For example, a capital letter "A" has one diagonal leg that is longer than the other and longer than it should be. Also, some of the bottom legs of the number "2" are not fully completed. I have fully verified that the toolpath is correct in CAM (Fusion 360), I have also played with every toolpath settings and combinations in Fusion I could imagine. The toolpath is a 2D contour that I wrapped around the OD of the part using a text font that is made of straight lines as opposed to block style letters. I have been running Fusion since 2018 and I have been making these parts since 2021. What I find to be very strange is that rather than poor kinematics where you would see the machine make shuttered or faceted motions, it is adding or missing features of the simplest style of text you could think of. Again, no issues until I surpass 28IPM. This engraving opp is taking about a minute longer on the DN than it would take on the Haas, and considering I am making thousands of these parts a year, any added cycle time is no good. I am new to DN and Fanuc, but I imagine (and hope) that the issue is some sort of simple setting or parameter. My fingers are crossed that it is some stupid mistake I am making or something obvious that I am missing. I am more than aware that I have years of learning ahead of me before I am remotely proficient on the new control, but I am confident that the learning curve will be worth it in the end. Any and all help would be greatly appreciated! Thanks!Evening fellas.I currently set all my tool offsets using a Renishaw tool setting arm on a fanuc lathe.I select T1(with no offset called) and touch off the probe in Z and X. This automatically alters offset 01. Pretty standard stuff.My question is... How do I use the Touch probe to set any offset above the number of tool positions I have available? For example T0120.I use manual guide i for the simulator function to test out my code. But I find myself constantly altering the tool data for the simulation.My thought is to have a larger number of tool offsets pre set up so I do not need to keep altering tool data, tool nose compensation numbers, radiuses ect. Similar to how you would have a VMC tool table set up.This might not be a issue for most. But I do alot of one offs and small batch production. Any time saved on setup is always good.Feel free to throw your 2 pence inCheersLike the title says, I'm running a Doosan Puma 700XLY II lathe. The control panel is a Fanuc Series 32i-model B. Every so often, without warning or alarm, the panel will freeze or lag. Even the clock will stop and then catch up.The really strange part is when I'm running code through the MDI or Auto functions, it'll still runs as normal then the screen with catch up. It's behaving like a really old PC running Windows without enough memory.Powering down and restarting doesn't seem to do anything. And sometimes the panel will freeze on start up.Has anyone had this experience? Or any insight for a repair? I've heard of it happening on an old Haas mill, but never seen it before now.So I was getting familliar with work and tool offsets and I was changing tools from my Haimer probe to an empty tool holder like I always do but I used this code to change tools.(Currently in g54 mode, all offsets check out)G49;T06M6;G43H6;I hit cycle start and instead of the spindle moving up to do a tool change, it full rapids straight down into the table.Does anyone know why this might happen?Fanuc oi-mf. Whenever I try to probe a tool with tool number 82 the length comes up as 2mm. Probe it in a different number works perfectly. Tried in manual and auto mode. Spoke to our service tech and he is stumpedI am working with a Makino A71 Pro 5, and I cant seem to find the Fanuc number, does it not have one or any tips for finding it.Anyone using this regularly? Our “trainer” was atrocious and just skipped through everything. I’m trying to program just a basic straight bore roughing but am always getting a “tool data is too short”I’ve probed the tool and set it up as #2 position in geometry. When the simulation comes up it looks correct but then errors.On a Haas it is a simple yes or no in settings. I want to use this on Fanuc but it would seem I need to write a macro to use a M code. we have 5 different machines with all different controls from Fanuc. Any idea where to start?there's multiple thousand page manuals inside the machine's help menu; idk if any of you have ever tried to read them on the machine itself but it's basically impossible to use lol, so i'd like to get the manual in pdf format. why is this not easily available for download from fanuc?We just got a used milling center with a Fanuc 31i-Model B controller. When I am in Auto and try to search for say, N10, while in the Check window, it says "Specified Program Not Found", even though I can literally see N10 further down in the program.I am currently trying to find a parameter that will enable the search function to run properly in Auto, so I can jump ahead in long programs. Does anyone know which parameter mighy help me?We are looking for a small footprint mill with a high spindle speed. Anyone have experience with the brother speedio or fanuc robodrill?We are in Maryland, has anyone dealt with the local support around here?They seem pretty much equivalent to each other but any thoughts on long term durability and reliability?Just a plain 3 axis no trunnion or anything fancy.Hello all! I was pissing about on Edgecam and thought I’d try to recreate the head of a bishop out of stainless steel (like you see on those attention draining Facebook reels). The program begins roughing off the “excess” of a hex bar, and then the next operation is turning the hex down to 40mm diameter with 21mm of Z axis length. That was the easy part as it was just tweaking existing programs. The hard part is trying to produce this 20mm rad. The spindle speed is calculated by a macro parameter based on material type, but as for my attempt at writing a canned cycle, this program runs but does the rad in two passes, but the roughing tip has a .8mm rad with 3.5mm max depth of cut, so the two passes are trying to take a… much bigger cut.I’m guessing a G71 would be more appropriate but the machine is kicking up an alarm when I try this, without any specific reason. I tried changing it to a G71 with a G02 going from X40.0 Z-20.0 round to X0.0 Z0.0 but still the alarm comes up.This is long winded and probably doesn’t make sense but I’m hoping one of you can help point out where I’ve gone wrong.A lecturer at my college said I probably need to throw in something about tool compensation but my training thus far hasn’t addressed this factorDies anyone possibly know how to drip feed to a Fanuc Series 21-t controller. I tried to follow multiple videos but none of them seem to help me. I'm trying to transfer it from a computer using NC editor through a port that will feed into the machine and be able to drip feed my program.If you need further explanation just ask tks.I stupidly tried to just use the program restart feature for the first time ever on a program that uses g92. I have no idea what I did wrong; I only reset the program entered n18, then "q type" ...it gave me an alarm.... I said fuck it and started program from beginning. It did what I expected for a bit then the part rapid away from the spindle... thankfully it didn't crash. But now all the g92 work shifts in the program are replaced with the n18 line.....like the same line of code is now dispersed throughout the program a shitload of times. How bad did i fuck up?Hi everyone,For context: I'm a noob and non machinist who recently invested in a Samsung (SMEC) SL-2500 live tool lathe to make some parts that I'd been making as a hobby on a small manual lathe.I also have a Haas Mini Mill so have a little experience with g-code but not heaps, and this is my first try at a Fanuc control.I went through my training with the supplier using conversational programming which was all fine and I've seen the machine run well but CAM is what I intend to use for parts so want to stick with that workflow and not use conversational.SMEC has a specific turning post in Fusion 360 which I've been using but when running the program (in both simulation and actually running it) it hits sections where it will alarm out with a "009 IMPROPER NC-ADDRESS" error on lines that to me should be fine. Two examples attached.One is a straight M05, the other is G53 X0 which should both be fine to me?Can anyone point me in the right direction in getting over these alarms?I think it’s like semi-conversational, but I’m not 100% on conversational coding, much closer to 10%, looking to find any/all resources to hopefully be able to assist my guys with stuff in the futureI have been loving my Heidenhain controlled 5 axis machine, especially the work offset translation function which lets you set one work coordinate and have the control calculate the positions of the other faces of the part. We have a lot of makino horizontals, and i'm trying to figure out if they can do the same thing. I believe it is called Dynamic Fixture Offsets, and it has something to do with G54.2, but i can't find much info on it. Our old Makino applications engineer was a big custom macro guy, so he always tried to solve it with a really complicated macro, rather than the control's built in function.TL/DR: How do i use G54.2 on my Makino horizontals?!I am running a Doosan Puma 2600LSY with Fanuc and want to check a 1mm Drill for tool Breakage. Is there an M-Code for an Automatic Tool check? Cant find anything in the Manual.Calling on the programmers here, does anyone know if it is possible to select a range of variables to output using the DPRNT function? And what would the syntax look like? I have several hundred variables generated by in-process probe inspection and I would like to start aggregating data for each part/operation run, but I really don’t want to write a separate DPRNT command for every single variable. Do I need to write a custom Macro with a while loop to generate the data? Anyone have anyone knowledge or resources they can share? Thanks in advance.Running a vmc with a 31i-Model B. When setting coords for my parts, I'll use the relative to find center, measure, offset, etc. When I go to hit X-2. > Measure , it changes the value of the coord properly, but it also changes the value of the relative. I don't want the relative to change. I've ran other fanucs, and they've never done this. Is there a parameter to untie the two from each otherEdit: Changed parameter 3104.3 (PPD) from 1 to 0. Seems to have fixed the issueRed warning popped up on Anca screen saying door is fenced or something similar to that. Any help to get my machine back up and running was be appreciated!We are working on a production job hand loading a boring bar. I'm looking for a way to inhibit turret indexing without a user input. Any ideas?Come in this morning. Note at machine says “stuck on tool 9. Can’t reset”The machine is home, no alarms on screen or in history. Cannot index. Pressing the index button will engage the live tooling. Main spindle is locked. Full power down for ten minutes, turned it back on, same thing. Tried a couple of the usual Mcodes in MDI for alarms we have often, but it either does nothing or just won’t take the code.Anybody experience this or have any possible insight? Would be greatly appreciatedI have a client that recently bought a 3 axis lathe with Fanuc Series 32i - Model B and a CAM program from Solidcam. But, the company who sold Solidcam did not provide a post-processor. They ask for money if they want a post-processor. How can I help my client? Are there any templates that I can modify to fit or any other advice? Thanks!I do a series of parts that are threaded standoffs. Smooth OD, through-hole threaded one M series thread or another. Generally, I form tap them, due to speed, lack of chips and overall strength.I just got a new batch of these parts that have bigger threads that I can't form tap for various reasons (one being horsepower). One of them is an M12 that is too long to form tap. My options are single point (too slow), cut tap (shitty chips), or thread mill.I don't do much thread milling at all. For this particular part, I'm planning on using this mill.Now I can do a bunch repetitions of H360.W.06889 but I'm wondering if I can just simplify that with a slow speed G92. I don't see the difference between that and doing a ton of repetitions of incremental moves.Am I missing something?Oops, good afternoon, I have a fanuc that is giving this error, has anyone had the same or can help me? Alarme 930In going through my USB drives from when I worked in a shop, I found a pile of old resources and a lot of it is how to enable features in fanuc controls and how to recover and save things. I have had these pigeon holed away for years and if anyone has use for then I'll gladly share! They proved very valuable on out ol puma and ecoca machinesLets say your drilling/tapping a hole off center with a live tool.. how are y'all getting around this? Just cancel the G112 once you're in position and then do the canned cycle? Do long code output for the drill pecking cycle would work I guess, but I've never seen a long code tapping cycle. Seems really janky to me. Is there a different Gcode I can use? G73 is high speed pecking, but I'm pretty sure the control just ignored the code since graphics didn't show any pecks on the positions. I saw some G1001 codes in the massive manual that came with the machine but they aren't explained well and there is no examples anywhere to be found. Any help would be appreciated.Is there a way to reference an axis on Fanuc 21i systems using the typical 1815 APZ method but instead have it set to a non-zero manually entered value?tldr: Tool won't release manually or by running programs that have worked in pastFor background: Machine is a Laguna Smartshop 3, 5 axis with Fanuc Oi-MF. Operator (me) has been running this machine and only this machine for about a year and a half on a regular basis, I also design the files I run on Solidworks/SolidCAM.The rundown of what was happening before the issue:I started the machine, referenced all axis, and ran a program. No issues, everything ran as normal. The machine put the tool back as the program calls for and I loaded up the next file. I hit cycle start, the machine picked up the tool it was supposed to and the gantry began moving toward the work piece, however before it began its descent into the work I noticed I had a different tool in the tool holder spot I had just pulled from. (I have two sets of tools, but only 8 automatic changer locations. I have a set 1-8 A and 1-8 B and the program I was running was calling T4 (A) an engraving bit, while I had T4 (B) an end mill loaded in that spot. So before the spindle began to move down I hit cycle stop and reset then put it into MDI mode and told the machine to put the tool back by hitting M6T0, which usually works to put it back to no tool.Description of issue:The machine moved back to the correct position on the automatic tool changer, but when the g-code was running M21 (unclamp spindle) was called on the screen, the air is flowing as it normally does when a tool is released, and the tool is not releasing. The machine will sit there with the air flowing and paused since the M21 function doesn't finish so the next line in the program won't run. The only other time this has happened to where the tool won't release is if I forget to turn on my compressor, or for some reason it has turned off during work. Then it would sit there in the tool change position for some time until the air pressure has built up to where it has sufficient air to release and then it will continue from the M21 command and finish as would be expected to based on whatever I'm running.Fanuc Robodrill slideway wipers - where to get them in UK or Europe? Contacted Fanuc UK spares and was told they do not stock them and never sold them. Tried aftermarket companies, which poped up on google search with no luck either.I don't know if the rubber seal alone can be replaced or it has to be cut off and some new universal strip installed. I need it sorting, as the swarf is getting under the slideway.Any constructive feedback is much appreciated.Preface: If there's a better place for me to post this, please let me know. I'm rather new to Fanuc, and I don't know where to find the best resources yet. Google kind of sucks for what I'm after.I'm attempting to run a high speed machining tool path using an A axis rotary and axis substitution.With the AI HPCC left off, all 3 axis move rather smoothly, but I'm breaking tools in corners. The part is currently running in the machine with the step over turned way down with AI HPCC off.With the AI HPCC turned on, I'm getting jerky movements, rendering the program useless.I'm assuming it's a system parameter issue, and would love to know where to start looking. Is there a tutorial somewhere for setting all 4 axis' to run cohesively? Or is this something I should call Fanuc in for? I have the .DAT file backed up, Fanuc Parameter book out and open, and I really wanna get this thing dialed in for this, and future jobs.Let me know if any further information is neededHi all,I’ve been using a Toshiba Vertical Lathe with a Fanuc Oi-TC control and using a G71 canned roughing cycle then a G70 to finish.My final thickness is 48mm but my billet is only 48.3mm thick so I programmed my depth to 48.1 which worked fine with the roughing portion of the program. However when ran the G70 to finish it, it traveled further on the Z and took a cut out of my face plate! I’ve not been formally taught on this machine and only really know what I’ve picked up myself from messing/researching online so it’s very possible I’ve done something wrong, I can post my code if need be.I have W0. In my G71 line which from what I’ve been told means it shouldn’t have left any material on when it roughed out, whereas I had U2. Which left 2mm on the diameter.Any tips or suggestions much appreciated, thanks!I am trying to create a program that I can use to cut splines with a single point cutter, I am having a real hard time as this is my first go at programming. I have some code I found online and modified it to work a little with my machine. I have a Doosan Lynx 220LM (X, Z and C axis) with a Fanuc Controller.I currently have this as my program%O0008(BROACH MACRO PROGRAM)(CONTAINS SUB PROGRAM #0007 AND #0006)(ENTER YOUR SPLINE DATA ON THE NEXT 6 LINES)#501=1.1(ENTER SPLINE LENGTH HERE)#502=.96(ENTER STARTING DIAMETER HERE)#503=1.0(ENTER ENDING DIAMETER HERE)#504=.005(ENTER DEPTH OF CUT PER PASS HERE)#505=100(ENTER IPM FEED RATE HERE)#509=50(NUMBER OF SPLINES)We have a takisawa lathe with turn-i Engraving of the face of a part is fine but trying to do so on the od The radius of letters are going the wrong way anyone had this problem or know a solutionWere using the Engraving functionI've seen that robotic arms can be used for moving the workpiece around, but I've always seen the spindle and mill be "traditionally" mounted.Is there a possibility of ever having a robotic arm do milling work in-situ, i.e. by moving the milling head instead the workpiece around? Are any legit tolerance achievable in this way or is it just never going to happen?I have 2 machines with Fanuc 10 that both have the minimum memory (20m) and it can be upgraded to 480m (192kb). Has anybody done it just by buying the same type of SRAM chips from Ebay (less than 10€ a piece and takes 4 of them per machine while the memory upgrade sellers would charge like thousands, my VMC has d43256c-12l and the lathe with 10T has hm62256lp-12) and then enabling the not so secret option parameters? Could run some of my programs without drip feeding with the max memory which is still small.Hello, i have a Fanuc 0-T Mori seiki SL-25 lathe from 1990The tooling probe is slightly off in the north button. Its making parts that are oversized by about 0.053mm. I am curious as to how i can adjust for this, as to not have to calculate it in every time.I have seen some talk online about this being parameter one of either parameter 744, 745, 746, 747I don't know how to access these through the display, if it is one of those.Attached is an image of my control boardJust picked up a daewoo lynx200 with a fanuc 21i-t control. No manuals. Waiting on replacements from doosan, anyone have a list of the codes they could send me so I can get practicing. Currently have mazaks qt-15 t2/32, have been doing mazatrol for the past 20years so haven’t touched g code since tech school.Hello machinists I got myself this 2004 Robodrill a little while ago and was wondering what everybody would recommend the best way to get familiar with fanuc is. I would love any advice and tips for this machine. I'm a rookie machinist but it's what I enjoy doing and someday I'd like this machine to make some money I just don't have the experience yet to do so. Thank you!We are reinstalling a machine we had mothballed amd currently getting everything set up again. All our programs run in imperial, the relative and absolute positions read imperial, but the machine position reads metric. Does anyone know why? Programs run properly, just the machine position display.So I'm being driven nuts by an older Hanwa XD32 running a fanuc 18i controller. For the record, I have no formal training in cnc repair, but I'm the guy who says "sure I'll try to fix that" when asked.I repeatedly get 972 nmi 926 fssb black screen errors. Today I got six. The standard fix has been 'shut it off, turn it on, recover and try again.' This isn't cutting it anymore.So I'm home and irritated, googling. I come up with a page from the 16i controller manual that actually seems to help with troubleshooting the problem (if you google fanuc alarm 926 fssb you'll find the page on manualslib.com). I've been through the 18i manuals and they don't have a similar page, I don't think.I've been thinking that the issue is between the sub spindle and the amp. Looking at that page, it shows either a fiber optic cable between amps or from the cnc to the first amp. Now, that sounds to me like they mean the controller. Is that what they mean? the actual controller? Is "sub" in the error referring to a sub card in the control?The biggest problem I have is that I can't reproduce the error on command. So even if I get a tech out to look at it, I can't necessarily show him or her what it's doing. Other than replacing a cable and waiting to see, is there any other way to diagnose the problem?r/CNC•2 yr. agoI have been running this vertical lathe for about a year now and was wondering if I could change some of its features.When the machine is toggled to "zero return" mode, pressing the x(pos) or x(neg) rapid feed button results in x axis moving positive. This can be a problem because if you are in "zero return" mode but think you are in "jog mode" pressing x(neg) can result in possibly crashing the machine. Fanucs i have ran in the past would do nothing if x(neg) is pressed in zero return mode. Is there a parameter to change this? It does it in "z" a well, but i'm not too concerned about that.This machine will not let you jog 2 axis at once in manual mode(jog or rapid). This is annoying because when working with small parts you first have to jog all the way over in "x" then all the way down in "z" instead of both at the same time.(teaching tools, etc...) Also sometimes it's nice to just machine a chamfer real quick by positioning the tool and then jogging x and z at the same time instead of writing the code in mdi mode. Is there a parameter for this. This is the first Fanuc that i have encountered that does this.Lastly, is there a parameter to change the functions of "rapid overide" If memory serves me correctly, most fanucs have the standard F100%, F50, F25, and F0 overide options. On the machine I used to run when I toggled to F0, the machine still traveled, but quite slowly, like 8 in/min. This machine stops completely on F0. Can I change that, or can I change the feed of the F25 option? The problem I am running into is that the 25% option is still too fast for stepping a program through.... I watch "distance to go" on the position page quite a bit now, but it would be easier to just keep bumping the feed override until travel stops. Also there are times when you don't want to single block it because you can't have the tool dwell on the part(chatter, etc..)Anyways, I've looked in the parameter manual, but most of that is greek to me, any help would be greatly appreciated.Not sure what’s going on, if some modal code is stuck or if somebody fucked with my parameters, but I can’t get Handle jog mode to function without resetting in my Auto, Edit, and MDi modes consecutively, it also isn’t letting me change from G54 offset to G55 without turning the machine off and on again, it’ll recognize that I input the G55 into MDI but after that I can’t “measure” values under my G55 offset subset, the manual also doesn’t reference four separate modal G codes (G25, G13.1, G54.2, G80.5) does anyone have any clues wtf is going on? Control is a Hwacheon Fanuc i seriesHello, I've used and programmed several fanuc lathes (controls varying from FANUC O-T to basically this new one for 8 years, this newest one doesnt work quite the same than the previous ones. Heres a simple example:O4000G50 S500G96 T0101S220F0.38 M41 (New one doesnt actually accept Feedrate from here, has to be in with G71)M4G0X400 Z5M8G71 U4 R1G71 P1 Q2 U1.2 W0.08N1G0 X296.98G1 Z0G1 X300 R1.5G1 Z-50I recently had the opportunity to run a Mori NH5000 and wanted to see if anyone knew how to find the cycle time remaining on the controller. I've asked around at work and nobody seems to know.Hi newbie to cnc here. I've got a cnc lathe with a fanuc 21iT.Most tutorials and manuals suggest setting the Work Offset to zero the Work coordinates on the part.But there is just a blank space where the Work offset soft button should be.There is a workshift button though. Can this be used instead? Is there a difference?Thanksr/CNC•1 yr. agoCurrent machine is set up for rs232 data transfers and instead of buying an expensive USB conversion I tried the PCMIA cards.Set the i/O channel to 4 and the card errors out when trying to transfer saying error: 0099Has anyone had this issue before? It is a fanuc 0i-MC controller with a 8gb memory cardHi all,I recently picked up an 80s Nakamura Tome Slant Bed Jr lathe for my shop, but I'm having trouble sending programs via RS232 cable using DNC4U software.When I try to "READ" a program to the machine it gives me this error: "SR830 DATA SET READY DOWN (RS232C_2)"Any thoughts?Can anyone explain to me what these buttons are? It’s a ‘new’ machineI've recently finished painting my new to me Robodrill, after putting the way covers back onto the machine and firing it up again I noticed I can only change tools using the "next tool" button and not through the MDI screen when I want to skip to different tools around the carousel.When I try to go from tool 1 to 9 for example, the spindle will orient itself for a tool change and then the machine will just sit there, with no alarms or messages, forever.I don't think it's the door as the interlock is plugged in, and I have the rapids to 100%, I've also hit the reset button a million times and cycled the power yet it still does the same thing.Has this happened to anyone else?Hi, I've recently started work for an industrial repair company and have been tasked with making a test stand for Fanuc Alpha Series in order to run a motor forwards and backwards. I have:A06B-6077-H106 Power Supply Module A61L-0001-0093 CRT Monitor - Series 18T A06B-6078-H206 Spindle Amplifier A16B-1212-0901 Power Supply A16B-2202-0860 CPUI dont yet have a motor and I don't know how to work out which spindle motor to use! (Help!?) I currently have the CRT screen connected to the CPU and I get lots of information on the screen. I know I can connect the Servo Amplifier to the CPU but will it recognise it is present? Is there a screen on the Fanuc Series 18-T that will show all the units connected to it? At least if I can do this then I can prove the communication is working.Does anyone know of anyway to learn more about the older Fanuc models?Any help would be most appreciated!any self taught robot nerds on here? I'm considering investing in robot education. Any advice? We have robots on all of our machines (at least the ones I'm in charge of) but when I change jobs the robots usually just sit because there is no one to program them. If someone from outside comes to set it up it will a while for them to get here and they are very expensive. If the job is not that big then there's no point in investing but still if I could program this bastards I could turn a 3 week production job to 1 week if it ran over night. It will also put some weight on my resume lol. I know there's a lot of money in automation and it might just be me but I think a CNC programmer has the upper hand against a programmer from Fanuc because we're out there on the floor first hand.I have used a real RS232 port and drip feeding goes error free after disabling the FIFO buffer from Device Manager. I tried the adapter with FTDI chip because I want to use a newer computer soon, the settings in Device Manager don't include the option to reduce the size of the FIFO buffer and maybe due to this it overflows the buffer on the CNC. The machine has Fanuc 10M control. All my programs need drip feeding since the memory is so small on these Fanucs. Some have said that the FTDI chip should be trouble free and the best of these adapters but even it can't apparently handle a machine this old like a real serial port does.Hello,Looking for some help with live tooling on my Fanuc Lathe. Part runs fine until I cancel the C-axis and put spindle back into spindle mode and try to rapid away at the end of the program.I am getting alarm 197 C–AXIS COMMANDED IN SPINDLE MODEIf anyone has any ideas I would much appreciate it.Here is a copy of the code:(1/2 END MILL)M05T1111G20 G40 G99M01M18G28 H0.G50 C0.G97 S2000 M03 P12M08G98 G00 X1.1894 C0.01 Z0.1G112G01 Z-0.4 F20.0G42 X0.5774 C0.0 F3.0X0.2886 C0.25X-0.2886X-0.5774 C0.0X-0.2886 C-0.25X0.2886X0.5774 C0.0G01 Z0.2 F20.0G40 X0.5774 C0.0G113G00 Z1.0M09M05M17G04 P3000G40 G00 X10.0 Z6.0<-----ALARMS HEREG40 T1100G18M01G50 W-0.04M30I'm having trouble milling out polygonal shapes using my fanuc 0m g16 option. First of all, when I define my radius and angle in incremental mode, I have a macro to determine the angle (in this angle, I'm trying to form a 10 sided regular polygon, and I want my first angle to be the topmost left corner, so 102deg if I'm right) and it keeps sending it to 63 degrees. So somehow I'm off 45 deg for no apparent reason. And I double checked, my variable is 102 at the time of the move.Secondly, after I define both those, before it makes its first Y movement, it takes me somewhere completely off the map.. like way off.. but once it moves where it wants, it proceeds to form the 10 sides (albeit, while off by 45 degrees..)Are there some common system variables that may have gotten messed up that control what's going on? Any help and insight would be appreciated. Thanks!I've been tasked with setting up a barfeeder on our lathe. The lathe is a Daewoo Lynx 200 with Fanuc 21-T controller manufactured in 1993. We had a tech from the barfeeder manufacturer install the barfeeder so on that end everything is good.The problem is the /2 (block skip 2) in the program. I get the alarm "data not found". The barfeeder tech said he's never seen a Daewoo reject that code. He thought maybe it was a locked feature that the original purchaser of the machine didn't pay for.So the program should look something like this:/2 M51 (End of bar cycle)M98 P0001 (part program loop)So can anybody help a guy out? Any help is greatly appreciated!I have a background programming simple open source applications in Visual Basic and C++. To reduce the need for support, I have always left very detailed readme files and comments in my programs. I carried this habit over to G-Code and mostly eliminate the need for paper-copy setup sheets (unless the part is especially complicated).This is an example of what my programs typically look like. My coworker gets annoyed with the amount of comments I use. Memory management is not an issue here; he doesn't like how I make it dummy-proof.I'm not looking to change my programming habits. I save myself the headache of searching through cabinets full of folders for a setup sheet. If you came across this program, what would you think of it? Outside of the functionality, that is.Hello everyone, we have just recovered a machine but the problem is that the batteries that save the important parameters of the machine were dead. So I have to try to set the different limits but I can't find any documentation about it.Hey guys. We have issues interlock on robodrill year 2010. Where would we get wiring diagram for the machine? Dealers are not willing to suppluly that.Havent found a way to stop the program while its running, stop the splindle and open up the doors. Is there a way to do this and then resume ur pass where you left off. I also run a lathe with fagor panel and to do that i press cycle stop, T then press spindle off.Does anyone happen to have any starting parameters for wiring .040 Tantalum?Previous operator cleared out the cutting conditions for this material, and I'm unsure of where to start.TYIA(EDIT (2): Got it cutting. Feed rate is only around .125ipm .325ipm at the moment. Finish is fine, but I feel it should be cutting a bit faster. Maybe I'm a bit overzealous, and .125ipm .325ipm is good enough.)Have a Fanuc 18-t control on a Doosan puma 400, trying to get G30 working again. Not sure what exactly happened to it but I’m getting alarm 110 the m-code is M20 . That calls program O9020 . 09020 reads G10L51; N1241 P1 R[#502125400] ; N1241 P2 R[#502225400]; G11; M30; % This code did work at one time ,I checked #5021 and #5022 using #1= in mdi then looking at variable screen then numbers it gave me correspond to machine position X and Z . Is there anything I’m not seeing? Very new to macros what do the p1, p2 and r do ? Also when I was looking for a solution I found 3202 ne9 left on by whoever was there last .Does anybody have experience with the Doosan Puma controllers? It has a button to switch high/low gear in handle mode but when we program an m41/m42 it won’t read the code, and sits idle. Won’t go forward in the program. Controller is a Dn Solutions Fanuc i series. The lathe also has live tooling but no sub spindle.Our memory card is filled with many programs and some programs are saved with specific names which are like 10 pages away. I don't want to keep scrolling till end so please tell me if there's a way I can navigate directly.Hey guys. I'm just an operator at a production shop right now on a Doosan Puma 2600SY lathe getting in some experience. But I start school for CNC in a few months that includes manual machining, shop math, g-code, CAD/CAM and a few other things. I was wondering if there's any useful articles or books you've read while learning your tools, workholding, etc. Videos are cool too.Hello . I have kitamura cnc mill with fanuc 6M control. Could you please tell me how could i call the old programs in memory for edit...? When i write program name in edit mode for example O0025 and press insert the alarm 073 is showen in crt....!Is the state of the block skip key stored as a system variable or anything I can access for a macro? is there any way to invert the block skip so it only skips the blocks when the switch is active?We just got a new Fanuc Robodrill α-D21liB5 with a 31i-B5 control that has a 'Coolant Manager' function that seems to be able to take input from an inline refractometer. Any ever used external sensors on a fanuc like that?Just recently had a Controller Screen go dark after just working yesterday. The screen itself is dated 2012-01 if that's any help. If anyone has any solutions on it, not sure if the screen is dead or malfunctioning due to liquid getting in months ago or just died due to other causes. Replacement is also an option. Any help? Will attach photos of specific issue and the model info: CNC controller display https://imgur.com/a/BLpontoI work for an electronics repair company that only works on Fanuc branded controls. And I always have found it baffling how most of the Mitsubishi machines are outfitted with Fanuc controls. Even though Fanuc controls are pretty high qualify, it was my impression that Mitsubishi also makes a pretty decent CNC control.Any ideas on why they don't just use their company's flagship product on their machines?I just got a 1989 Daewoo Puma 12LB Lathe with a FANUC 10T controller. I've tried using a few of the post processors in fusion 360 for either FANUC controllers and/or Daewoo and Doosan controllers and none of them seem to work. I am using a micro DNC to drip feed the programs to the machine and it will load in just fine but as soon as I hit cycle start I get an alarm for PS003 (Too Many Digits). I've double checked all of the settings between the DNC and the controller to make sure all of them match. If anyone has any insight into what the issue might be or have a working post porcessor for fusion and is willing to give me a copy that would be greatThanksI need to find a way to create this on a haas mill. Material is 6061. Turning it on a lathe would be piece of cake but it's off center on flat rectangular bar. We have a tool grinder but I'm not great at it. The angle wouldn't be so much a problem but with the straight counter bore at the top of the hole the tool would have to be perfect. Was thinking of interpolating but not sure it's feasible. Suggestions are appreciated.Hi anyone with a TORNOS with fanuc 31?Need the default IP address for the embedded port, if I recall it’s a 10.xx.xx.xx address.Written over it without taking a note of the original address….I believe this is only used to send FOCAS2 data to an internal PC on the controller which I think is the TISIS pc? :( any help is appreciated!!I've seen a couple posts, either on Reddit or fb, about having a mill "tuned." As in, someone comes and dials in the parameters so each axis is operating at its maximum potential. Especially in regards to 3rd party 4th and 5th axis.Where would I find someone that can come out and set my machine up?TIAJust picked this machine and a Kiwa KNH -400 up from a auction. I’m new to computer controlled machines and I just wondering where to start. Like what kind of programs do I need or cad software. The Daewoo in a 1999 and the Kiwa in a 2004.Our foreman left and one thing he never did was get our Doosan lathe operating to its full functionality. Our foreman from years ago claimed this was the best lathe we have and everything seemed like it fired up, but I’m not familiar with the Fanuc controller on the lathe. I just learned the Fanuc controller on one of our mills, but I can’t seem to figure out how the bar feeder works on the lathe. On the Haas, I use the Bar Feeder settings in ‘CURRENT COMMANDS’, but the Fanuc contrlller doesn’t seem as intuitive.Can someone help point me in the right direction on how to set up the bar feeder on a Fanuc controller? Is it as easy as the Haas or do I have to program it manually? I’m new to setting up the lathes, but I did get the Haas figured out so I’m doing my best to get the Doosan running. Our lathes have been backed up because we’ve only used one of our two bar fed lathes (3 total)Any and all help appreciatedHow to Align "C-Axis" For livetool on CNC Lathe with Fanuc Control?Hi all, does anyone have experience running a fanuc 5T CNC controller? I came upon a CNC lathe that runs on the controller with a computer setup instead of tape. The guy who ran/owned the machine just passed away and there is an order that needs to go out from parts on the machine.. There were instructions left with the machine, but even when followed exactly the machine doesn't seem to read the program..Learning a new lathe. I absolute hate the idea of having to do a work offset for C strictly in the code. Any input in the C field for G54 does absolutely nothing. I hope its just my ignorance pertaining to the lathe but, is there a way to use the controls G54 reference just as it does my X and Z?This is on a Doosan Fanuc iHmi control.r/CNC•3 yr. agoAnyone know where I can find one? Never programmed a Fanuc lathe before but it looks like we will be getting our first one in a few weeks. I believe it will be a Fanuc I Series control. I really want to take this opportunity to eventually master this machine since it will allow us to bring a lot of our larger turning work back in house. For what it's worth, we will be doing alot of tapered threading (API, BUTTRESS) and possibly rope threads down the line. Any help or advice is appreciated!Hi,I'd like to be able to track the maintenance requirements of our machines, based on spindle hours like they already do locally, but via a network connection instead. Does readymade software exist for this?They're all Doosan with Fanuc control. Only one of them is with the new 0i plus control.Hey y'all.I was recently given the green light to start doing some research on possibly purchasing a wire EDM machine to expand our tool room capabilities where I work. I have zero experience with wire EDM, most of my background is working with lasers, robotic welders, press brakes, etc.Curious what input everyone has on brands of wire EDM machines. Any brands to stay away from? Unsure yet if we'd go new or buy a used machine.Is there any resource ms available to view a a manual for a Fanuc 10m control?I’ve have a Daewoo Puma 240MB lathe with Fanuc I series controller that has been stuck on 2047 TURRET CLAMP SWITCH ALARM OR TURRET CONTROL UNIT ALARM. In the past, this was always solved by replacing the battery on the servo driver in the back of the machine (Pro-Motion DASD-CT15SPXB-02) and then following the procedures to set the drive parameter #8 to the tool number in cutting position and resetting home position.Unfortunately, it is still throwing the alarm.Ive gone through the steps of using Keep Relay K5.4 to unclamp-clamp the turret and have successfully repositioned the turret.After doing the above procedures I have gotten the display on the servo, tool # display on the front of the machine and the actual tool in the machine to all agree that Tool#1 is in fact in position. So far, great success. But still, the machine refuses to accept.So I ordered and changed the turret clamp proximity switch. When the turret unclamps, the dog actuates and the LEDs on the turn off; reclamp the turret and the reverse happens. Ok.I’ve been on the phone with Darryl (who seems like the go to guy on the forums I’ve found) from Ellison technologies, who sent me info that outlined what to do as described above, but when I tried to ask questions he hung up on me. Twice. Maybe he was busy or having a bad day, but that’s a bummer. They are still almost 2 weeks out on getting a service tech out to look at the machine, and this is really putting me behind schedule.Does anyone have any insight on what could be the hang up? Besides burning lots of billable hours, it is burning lots of brain cells.Help! I'm a first year machinist apprentice who's been given the opportunity to learn and run several machines with a lot of autonomy.This is another way of saying I need to teach myself the machines and the trade without the benefit of a mentor...One of the machines I run is a Kasuga SNC-V2 with an older Fanuc controller and I can't understand what's happening when I try to set work coordinates. I hope the pictures help tell the story.Here the machine's been homed on all axis and you can see the machine position of the work offset I'd like to setX -539.362 Y -82.557 Z -154.156Ok? So I'll go to the work coordinates screen and enter those.Then back to the position screen where I hit reset which updates the absolute coordinates and you can see the result. Why have I been given the 'inverse' value of the coordinates I entered? I haven't moved the cutter, it's still at that machine position. Why isn't the absolute position zeroed out? This is how it works on the other two machines I run, they're Fanuc of a similar era.Here's the modal display.I wonder if I'm fundamentally misunderstanding how this machine is intended to be run.I write and run a lot of set programs on this machine but because of this problem they all have to be written in relative as absolute coordinates have no value. It would be great to do away with this.Hey! I need help with something on this Robodrill, and don't have the appropriate manual. It's a 2004 t21id with a Oi-16MD controller, and I need to figure out the keep relay that lets the door stay unlocked when the machine sees an M30. I found that K13.2 let's it stay unlocked after an M00 or M01, I just need to find the bit to change to make it do the same for M30.Thanks!I want to prevent a tool change even if asked for in program or MDI. Can that be done? I can give specific controls and machine tomorrow if it can.I need to pick and place 2 inch spherical objects that weigh about 2 pounds every day all day all night, I went to Vention.com and configured a Fanuc CRX robot table and set up for about $60k, then I kept looking and found Annin robots at about $2k and it can do just about the same stuff.Am I missing anything here or can I just buy the Annin robot and make it work? I need to figure out a vision system probably using Yolo v3 and learn the software but I'm not sure where to start since I'm a beginnerI do know that I need to move thousands of these spherical objects thoughI have a Fanuc arc mate 100id industrial robot for which I am designing a 7th axis track, I have to select a servo motor also by Fanuc for a moving mass of about 400-500kg (robot+welding equipment + the carriage). Can anyone guide me through the selection process or a manual of some kind?Hi,My company is making us move from Fanuc CRX to UR cobots. I have seen a bunch of negative posts about UR on this sub but most of them are at least a couple of years old. I wanted feedback on someone who is UR currently about following:- What pitfalls should I be expecting?- How does UR stack against cobots from other brands?- Has UR improved there software significantly in the past couple of yars?ThanksAre there any small project robot arms or automation systems where you can learn how to program stuff like that at home?We need a 24 volt color sensor for a Fanuc cobot CRX 20. Is there anything on the market that can be tought and plugged directly into the I/O on robot controller and provide an output signal to either run or not run our program? (Only needs to detect one color) we have two different nozzle types on our end effector and would like them to be poka-yoked . We really don’t want to have a controller or plc plugged in between the sensor and the robot controller. Any advice? We would also need some help with the logic in our program. More details can be provided!Hi all,We have unused fanuc m10/10ms robot that is just laying in workshop. There is a need for small parts welding for us. So the questions are if this robot can be used for welding? What are the differences between standard robot and welding robot ( i.e. Arcmate) ?I accidentally cleared a used PR in my Fanuc job and need that position. Is there any way to find out what the PR location was and just type it back into the PR? Last night I did an Image backup, ASCII backup and "All" backup. I don't want to just reload everything though, since I have made changes this morning that I would rather not have to make again.Is there something in one of the files that were backed up that would show me the position of that PR?Has anyone successfully used RoboDK with a Fanuc robot for 3d printing.I have been trying to figure out the post processor for filament extrusion control in vain. I am mainly stuck on how to deal with the large file size of the job file that has to be loaded to the teach pendant. RoboDK documentation suggests the use of drip feed method. However I am facing issues with setting up the FTP communication and for some weird reason RoboDK is not responding to my mails even though I have a license. Several forum posts about using Fanuc robots for 3d printing are left open ended.I am doubtful if this RoboDK x FANUC x 3d printing combo will even work out. Will be happy to have some help on this. Thanks in advance.So I had an interesting one today. I’ve had robots enter dcs zone and fault. No big. Just login, shift-reset and drive it out. Bing bang boom. I’m on a new robot and it doesn’t clear the dcs fault even with shift-reset. What gives?I’m a student that’s entirely new to robotics, and I’ve only been working with my teach pendant for a little over a week. I can move each axis of my robot itself, but the end of arm tooling will not budge. I’m assuming the - and + buttons are meant to control that, as x, y and z control the joints.I know nothing about teach pendants, so I’m curious if I can I map my keys to control the axes however I want. Can I even check to see if keys are unassigned? What could be causing this issue and what are the solutions?I have fanuc arc-mate Rj2 at my work which have lincoln powerwave 450 welder connected to it. I do the basic programming on it with the jig mounted on the table and parts go into that jig. The parts i weld are mild steel and robot uses mig welding. My question is if anybody has idea why welding gets offset from the joints. I use weave sine and L pattern to keep them intact but still welds get offset from the position by the difference of an eighth or three- sixteenthSo I had an interesting one today. I’ve had robots enter dcs zone and fault. No big. Just login, shift-reset and drive it out. Bing bang boom. I’m on a new robot and it doesn’t clear the dcs fault even with shift-reset. What gives?I am trying to get a Fanuc LR Mate 200iC to run, and keep getting errors. PRIO - 095 Overload CRMA15 SUON 1 Also SRVO - 371 SUON2 status abnormal. I can't find them in the manual, and need this thing to work for a school project. The Fanuc support line is terrible, so I'm hoping one of you can help. Thank you in advance.Hey everyone, First time posting on Reddit. I work in the automotive industry and primarily work with Fanuc. Working with both Mig(GMAW) and spot welding, I’m always intrigued with what I can accomplish with variables. One thing I know for sure is, there’s a lot of em. I’m posting on here to see if anyone has documentation that would help me better understand what some of these variables do.So what I’m trying to do is I’m trying to send a logic one from a PLC to a breakout board that is connected to the JRM18 plug that is then connected to the compact controller plus. I have called a program when it sees the logic one from the PLC to the input of the JRM18 but when I send it through I cannot see to get the program to start when it sees it. My main question on here is basically, does anyone here know the proper path to configuring an input and an output on the scara fanuc robot? Thank you for any help.https://mrk-blog.de/en/fanuc-and-universal-robots-with-a-paradigm-shift/The two robots, which are too large to work with humans, are evidence of a paradigm shiftDoes anyone have experience with the Fanuc CRX-10iA/L or the Universal Robotics UR10?Similarly, experience with the Lincoln vs Miller robotic power supplies?I'll be buying a cobot by end of year, and am trying to gather info everywhere! Please lend me your thoughts.Fanuc+LincolnUniversal+MillerI adjusted the pressure switch to a higher value but that did not seem to help. cleaned the suction holes and remove any debris on the pad as well. The tape you see on the pad is just to secure a ripper piece on the pad. TIAThe Fanuc R-1000iA/120F-7B Seven-Axis Robot seems to have an even weirder coupling than the 6-axis robots of Fanuc. And Fanuc refuses to give the law...According to our experiments, it seems that the coupling is something like that:J3real = J2 + J3display + E1J2real = J2displayE1real = E1displayBut this does not give us the limits. Exploring some values on J3 angle limits, it appears that J3 max and J2 min depends linerarly of J2 and E1 in some areas. While it does not in some others.For the time being, we are stuck at this stage. It seems that the only solution is to take thousands of measures in robot guide by hand to retro engineer the limits.We are not very happy with the lack of collaboration from Fanuc on this topic. But we have the robot in the factory now and we have to find these limits to pilot our robot remotely with an algorithm.If you have some more information, it would be really helpful.ThanksI'm part of a robotics startup that's gearing up to go from our prototype system to a production system. For our prototype we used a cheap ($1500) robot and are deciding now which production quality robot to use. We're nervous about making a mistake regarding picking out a robot due to their costs (circa $25K). We're considering many options and I'm not looking for advice on which robot but just wanted to ask a basic question about how hard it would be to adapt our code to different robots. Theoretically code could be written in such a way that the only interaction with a robot would essentially passing coordinates and other basic commands with the API that would be straightforward to switch with different robots. I wanted to ask those of you with some experience in adapting systems to different robots whether or not this is fairly straightforward or not what other considerations are we not considering?Thanks in advance!At work i have recieved training on an OTC Daihen 6 axis tig robot, i have decent knowledge on how to create a program using the point to point method, i found a job listing recently looking for a Fanuc programmer and maintenance tech, id like to apply but im trying to do some research since they require fanuc or motoman experience. From what ive seen theyre very similar in how you program them with the teach pendant...can anyone chime in on differences and any info on the maintenance side of robots as the job pays pretty well vs what i make nowHi, I've got a project I'm working on that involves KAREL programming, which I'm ignorant of. DM me for info, and your hourly rate.I've stumbled upon some hotkeys in Roboguide so you easily are able to JOG the robot in the simulation via keyboard.But I was wondering if there were more hotkeys/shortcuts for the keyboard. I can't seem to find any list online, maybe because I do not know what to search for.... :S  📷Do anyone of you have a complete list with documentation?Thanks in advance :)//HammerPS. Here my JOG list:Q & W - +/- J1A & S  - +/- J2Z & X  - +/- J3E & R  - +/- J4D & F  - +/- J5C & V - +/- J6T & Y  - +/- J7F & G  - +/- J8r/Fanuc•6 yr. agoIm a student and dont have any experience with robots but with PLCs. Im super interested in automation and Im looking in to getting a cheap used Mate or ArcMate Fanuc robot to learn on. What should I look out for when buying a used robot? Any advice or suggestions would be appreciated!Hi all - this is my first post in r/robotics, but from all I’ve read, this seems like the best place for my question.I am a factory owner from India; we manufacture various items out of sheet metal steel and aluminium.We are considering installing industrial robots for a welding operation and a pick and place operation.I visited China very recently and found many companies selling 4- and 6-axis industrial robots at pretty good prices - $5000-10000 for 5-10kg payloads.They all come with proprietary software that has English modes.However, I have no experience with robots (or relevant educational background to program them). However, a cursory look at the teaching pendant made it seem like it wouldn’t be too hard to do some basic task set up.However, the fairly low price seems quite suspect to me. I am okay with the robot not lasting several decades - I don’t have nearly enough capital for big brands like Kuka or Fanuc. But how wise or unwise might it be to buy a cheap Chinese industrial robot? And what should I look out for?I have uploaded a photo of a specification sheet for one of the brand’s 5kg 6-axis model for reference.I study robotics, and as a project, we're supposed to do an economical calculation related to robotization of a certain workplace. While I've found the perfect machine for the job (ABB IRB 360-6/1600), getting a quote as an unaffiliated person is nearly impossible. What can I do? Is there a way to get the price for educational purposes? Or maybe someone here knows the approximate price for that line of robots? I just need a rough estimate, whether it's around $60.000, $70.000 or more, and how much it roughly takes to operate.Need help trying to better understand a fanuc M-1iA 0.5s robot and the teach pendent that comes along with it. My new job that I started uses the the teach pendent a lot I need a helpful link or a good resource to get better knowledge. HELPDoes anyone know the skinny on connecting Fanuc arms with their CNC controls? I want to set up an experimental cell for one of my milling machines that has a Fanuc control. I have built robots before, but not with industrial controls. I'd prefer to not pay an integrator and just learn how to do this myself, but of course Fanuc is tight-lipped about what is involved and wants you to pay them or one of their trained technicians to build the cell for you, or take an expensive and time consuming course.Can I just pick up one of their arms and controllers and use it with any of their CNC controls, or do I need one of the controls with a "a" suffix?Thanks!I work at a machine building company that is starting to get into robotic applications. Robots are new to everyone, more or less, at the company and it's something I'd like to learn.Currently, all we've used is Fanuc robots and all the programming has been done with the Teach Pendant.From what I've read, it seems like being able to do offline programming helps shorten development time and implement solutions quicker. The problem is we only have one license of Fanuc's RoboGuide software (which seems clunky) so I've been researching alternatives.Is there a software package others have used or would recommend for developing programs or testing capabilities of robots, not just Fanuc but ideally all manufacturers. I've come across the following:-Gazebo -V-REP -RoboDK -Webots -Visual Components -Mablab/SimulinkThe summary on Wikipedia seems decent: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robotics_simulatorThis: "By using a Post processor and Off-line programming (robotics) software it is possible to handle brand-specific robot programming language from a universal programming language, such as Python (programming language).[2]" is what I'd like to learn and implement.(Source: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robot_software)Any insight from those more experienced as to a good starting point would be greatly appreciated!Is there anyone in here that may have any advice on operating and Teaching Fanuc or Motoman robots?A local scrap yard has a whole bunch of them, complete, along with the control cabinets, for sale at 30 cents/lb (general scrap price). I picked up one of the arms and a base for 300$, mainly out of interest for the servo motors, but I am wondering if I should run back and get one or two of the electronics cabinets.My question is what is generally in the control cabinets for these robots? (Or what should be in the cabinets, rather). Are the components generally modular (drives, controllers, etc), where they could be used independent of the controller, for driving a single servo for example?Thanks. I've worked around robots my whole academic career, but I've never messed with an industrial robot.I'm told these guys came from a Toyota plant.Hello community,I have some questions regarding the long term use of industrial robots. I’m buying a few from China, and I want to understand:What are the most common (and expensive) component fails in cheaper industrial robots?How do you assess the quality of servo motors used in joints?Are many components usually available off the shelf (or easily adaptable from off the shelf)?I’m finding it difficult to understand what the life cycle costs and issues with an industrial robots not from one of the big 3 (or 5) can be.Hi everyoneFor some dumb reason I decided to go back to grad school for robotics. I currently work as an automation engineer in manufacturing and figured it might be good extra knowledge since works paying for it and I work with robots.Everything is in ROS. And python. And Linux. And I find it absolutely unbearable. Not in 1000 years would I put a SBC running ROS and python on a manufacturing line. I'm really considering dropping out because I just don't see the point in my career path.There a reason industrial controls exist, and I think that's my disconnect. ROS seems great if your building a robot from scratch but I'm trying to integrate the robot into something larger like an automated inspection machine. We use stuff like UR Cobots, Epson, Fanuc, and Cognex. Not once do I think to myself "I think a python script would work great here".I also use .NET all the time. I'm no stranger to programming. I have a much better feeling about compiling a C# winforms and throwing it out there to run my machine than I every would ROSSorry if this is a bit of a rant, but I guess my real question is does anyone see a use for ROS in manufacturing? If I was developing a robot I can see the use case, but I'm starting to wonder if I'm going down the wrong pathTIAHi! I have been triying to solve the inverse kinematics for the CRX-10iA but I have not been able to. Because what I usually do for 6 joint robots is to find the position where the axis for the joint 4, 5 and 6 intersect (wrist). Doing P_wrist = P_noa - approach*L. Where L is the distance between the wrist point and the NOA frame along the aproach vector. But for this robot joint 4 and 6 are parallel and there is a distance betwewn them so there is no wrist point in order to solve position with the 3 first joints and orientation with the 3 last joints.I graduated highschool last year, I've been working a small manufacturing job since then, I just feel like I'm not doing anything. I did so much in high school, I'm a certified FANUC Operator by NOCTI along with the certifications for 2D-iR Vision and HandlingPro Software, I have every silver associate and specialist certification from SACA(Smart Automatiom Certification Alliance), I have a FAA Part 107 Remote Pilots License, all done within the span of half a year. I've been trying to look for a job that's entry level but all the ones I've found are expecting 5+ years experience. All the call backs I've had have been to tell me that I have the skills they want, but the experience is an issue and for that reason the couldn't hire me. I just need some help getting pointed in the right direction. As of now I am still a student at DeVry Univeristy in their Associate Program for Engineering Technology with my major in Machine learning. It's all online so I am able to relocate if necessary and I live near the Houston Texas area.I’m an avid robotics fan. And have been for a while. But lately it’s amazing the level of these robots in both the workplace and just doing random things.A lot of the cool companies seem to be in Japan.Any company that strikes you as the overall best. The next “apple” in robotics where it becomes the standard in robots?I am involved in robotics, AI and had worked on projects such as self driving vehicles, other robotic models and such.I am unable to filter companies that are doing good and have the vision for the field.Some I know are Tesla, Nvidia, boston dynamics, agility robotics, waymo, cruise, grey orange....Can people in this industry share more about companies that I can look forward to .ThanksssEdit: thanks alot to all for the replies!! Lovely community!!With the recent influx of cheap Chinese industrial robot arms, how are the established manufacturers (ABB, Fanuc, Yaskawa, etc.) distinguishing themselves from these Chinese competitors?These Chinese robots cost a fraction of the Japanese and German offerings, so they must be competing in different areas.I've got two suppliers quoting an automated weld cell. One has an Alpha 22 main axis drive and the other an Alpha 12. What's the difference?I have to setup a picking robot (suction based), it has to be fast so it has to be industrial. I don't think I can automate what I need to do with no-code softwares. I will need to write my own vision based pipeline and run ML on it. Using ROS2 would be easiest.In your opinion what's the easiest industrial robotic arm to setup and interface with? I worked with Fanuc in the past and I found it pretty complex and not easy to work with, although very powerful.I have almost decided on a Kuka, as it has a nice simulator but I have no experience with it.Would really appreciate some input or opinion.I'm currently pursuing a master's degree and one of my professors talked about KUKA Robots and how they've been revolutionizing the robotics space lately. I can't seem to find any information about this "revolution" he talks about (but he really likes GenAI and LLMs, so I suppose it has sth to do with it, idk).Could someone shed some light into it for me? Thanks!Hi there! My 10 year old nephew (not sure if him having high-functioning autism is relevant) is joining the robotics club. Every traditional sport has been too much for him so far, and he has always been technologically savvy, so we are seeing how this goes!I really want to encourage him to find a hobby he enjoys and I want to get him a gift to get started. Any recommendations for something small and beginner friendly that I can get him?If we look back in the history of mankind, we notice that we have made a lot of effort in many areas to make our lives more predictable, safe and comfortable. From agriculture (which gave us food security) to the invention of the steam engine (which took away hard work and made life more comfortable).If we think this into the future, we may assume that we will have even more dangerous, boring or uncomfortable work taken away from us and one way to do that is with the help of robots. The question I ask myself is: What is still missing in the field of robotics so that we can have virtually all strenuous work done by robots? In every dimension, be it in the area of actuators, mechanics, drive, battery, software, computer vision, law, money.What do you think are the limiting factors at the moment that prevent us from seeing more robots in everyday life?I'm currently looking for one to make hobby wise and saw the AR3 but was wondering if any one knows of any other that in the end could be used commercially with decent to high speed.I was referred to a few such as Kuka, Fanuc, Yaskawa for commercial- industrial grade which seem to be a good lead also.I have a budget of 5k-15k for the self built one and another 30-65k for a decent commercial one, located in Texas, US.mostly used for pick and place. but the mold is about 20 pounds and needs to extract the ice cream by pressing harder on the mold to release the ice cream.Hi, i am learning how to use Robo dk and I am trying to usea a Fanuc M 10 IA, my question is, how to open the controller or teach pendant of that robot,Trank youMy job has an old welding robotic arm that is just sitting there collecting dust because the robot controller took a dumb and the parts are too expensive to get and too hard to find. My question is what would it take to build my own controller for the robotic arm? Or is there a way to be able to control the arm? I know it won’t be easy, but I see it as a good learning opportunity/a good long term project. Any advice is welcome! Thanks !!I am working with a variety of robots on a daily basis. Especially when programming hanging (upside down) robots, I‘m hitting solid objects. When it happens I usually look around and hope nobody witnessed it.Just curious how you guys think. Can‘t be there is not a solution that protects the robot or me when hitting something.Hello,Can anyone here give me any insight into the base cost of an arm + controller. One possible arm I'm looking at is the KR 16. I'm looking to possible get an arm to experiment with to test possible use-cases for our shop. I'm not looking for the price of a customized solution just the base price to start things off. I've tried contacting Kuka but they've been slow to respond and I'm just trying to get some preliminary information to put together an initial request.Thanks!I have 2 servo motors 40kgcm 270°, they do this twitch when not moving. Is this a servo problem or a program problem I they are supposed to stop at 180° and its going the full 270°. I am using arduino Uno R3Hello, I am leading a team where we’re building a 6 DOF robot arm, and the thing that’s holding us back from progressing is the choice of motors. Arm specs are: 60 cm at full extension, and 1kg load which would give around 6Nm required at the base.We’ve basically decided on using servo motors because they are essentially a DC motor with an encoder and gears. However the specific servo motor that would suit our needs is evading us. Ideally, we would like a full 360 range of motion, along with the capability of setting the speed of it. We are also looking to use something similar to the industry, but those can be very expensive when combined with their required drives.So my question is, are there any specific motors that have 360 position and velocity control modes,, provide >7 Nm of torque, and are higher quality than hobby brand or almost industry level? One important thing is that we're essentially comparing each motor to one we already have, a 6 Nm servo, but it can only reach 270º, and we can't directly control the velocity, we have to increment the angle with certain delays to simulate a velocity. It's also a hobby type servo.Additionally, would top down development be better, because you can start at the end and would never have to estimate torque because you know the weights of everything that comes before that joint?r/videos•4 yr. agoI have a Fanuc LRMate 200iC robot with a custom tool attached to the flange. I have computed the inverse kinematics for the robot using IKFast. However, the inverse kinematics solution only goes up to the flange. What do I need to do in order to get the inverse kinematics to move the end effector tip to a certain coordinate? I have created my URDF in such a way that the TCP is at the tip of the end effector, but the IKFast solution still places the TCP at the flange. Here is the end effector portion of the URDF: <joint name="joint_6" type="revolute">    <origin rpy="0 0 0" xyz="0.080 0 0"/>    <parent link="link_5"/>    <child link="link_6"/>    <axis xyz="-1 0 0"/>    <limit effort="0" lower="-6.2832" upper="6.2832" velocity="12.5664"/>  </joint>  <!-- ROS-Industrial 'base' frame: base_link to Fanuc World Coordinates transform -->  <link name="base"/>  <joint name="base_link-base" type="fixed">    <origin rpy="0 0 0" xyz="0 0 0.330"/>    <parent link="base_link"/>    <child link="base"/>  </joint>  <!-- ROS-Industrial 'flange' frame: attachment point for EEF models -->  <link name="flange"/>  <joint name="joint_6-flange" type="fixed">    <origin rpy="0 0 0" xyz="0 0 0"/>    <parent link="link_6"/>    <child link="flange"/>  </joint>  <!-- ROS-Industrial 'tool0' frame: all-zeros tool frame -->  <link name="tool0"/>  <joint name="link_6-tool0" type="fixed">    <origin rpy="0 0 0" xyz="0 0 0"/>    <parent link="flange"/>    <child link="tool0"/>  </joint>  <!-- Create a fixed joint with a parameterized name. -->  <joint name="measurement_tool_joint" type="fixed">    <!-- The parent link must be read from the robot model it is attached to. -->    <parent link="tool0"/>    <child link="measurement_tool"/>    <!-- The tool is directly attached to the flange. -->    <origin rpy="0 0 0" xyz="0 0 0"/>  </joint>  <link name="measurement_tool">    <origin rpy="0 0 0" xyz="10 0 0"/>    <visual>      <geometry>        <!-- The path to the visual meshes in the package. -->        <mesh filename="package://fanuc_lrmate200ic_support/meshes/lrmate200ic/visual/measurement_tool.stl"/>      </geometry>      <material name="">        <color rgba="0.15 0.15 0.15 1.0"/>      </material>    </visual>    <collision>      <geometry>        <!-- The path to the collision meshes in the package. -->        <mesh filename="package://fanuc_lrmate200ic_support/meshes/lrmate200ic/visual/measurement_tool.stl"/>      </geometry>    </collision>  </link>  <!-- TCP frame -->  <joint name="tcp_joint" type="fixed">    <origin rpy="0 0 0" xyz="0.3109057 0.0035 -0.031"/>    <parent link="measurement_tool"/>    <child link="tcp"/>  </joint>  <link name="tcp">      </link>  <!-- define the ur5's position and orientation in the world coordinate system -->  <link name="world"/>  <joint name="world_joint" type="fixed">    <parent link="world"/>    <child link="base_link"/>    <!-- TODO: check base_link name of robot -->    <origin rpy="0.0 0.0 0.0" xyz="0.0 0.0 0.0"/>  </joint></robot>Hi,I hava a 6 axis robotic arm not dissimilar from Fanuc, ABB etc... I need to know the relative angle I need to apply to every single arm to reach a certain point in space at a certain angle (vector in space or spherical coordinates).Do you know any program, possibly opensource, to do just that, that is by giving as input the geometry of the robot (arms length) it and the point to reach it gives you as output the angles of the arm?Thanks in advance.I have a Masters in Electrical engineering, and have been working as a controls engineer for 3 years at a manufacturing company in US. I have experience with PLC's, HMI's, Fanuc robots, Servo drives. I make around 75K working full-time. I see a lot of jobs in maintenance but I'm thinking of getting into design and to work for OEM's so that I can do more engineering work.What companies and positions are the best in this field? How much do you make at your job?PS: I'm not a US citizen so that restricts me from applying for a lot of jobs.HelloI am trying to make my own Robot Arm and I want to take ideas from arms that are available on the internet. I found AR2 and AR2 and they are good but I want more so I can check different options.Basically what I want is the design and the hardware of arm, so it does have to be open source. Arms that are for sale but have good spec and not expensive (10k+ USD) is good.Edit: It does not have to be 5 or 6 axis arm. Any arm that has a great specification and precision is good (4DOF or 3DOF for example)Thank you.We have a fanuc lrmate 200id/7l in our machine implemented to load and unload cylindrical blanks from cassettes to the workhead clamper, where the blank gets processed. The problem is that when we calibrate the robot, the robot isnt in allignmeng with the axis of the workhead. What could cause the unaccuracy?We have a end effector which weghs about 3 kg and is 400mm longCould it be that the inertia is too high?Is there a comprehensive list of publicly traded robotics companies? Would be helpful if it's not limited to US companies.I am selling my Baxter. Only used 5 hours. Pretty much brand new. We thought it could lift more weight then it can. That is the only reason I am selling it.r/PLC•8 mo. agoSuper controversial title I agree however this is something I've always thought in the back of my mind so I thought id share my feelings.Bidepdal robots have always been the icon of robotics and the future however the machinery, mechanisms, algorithms, and money needed to make a bipedal robot that is commercially viable and operates better than a human can mean that it isn't worth it.I think the reason we need robotics is to develop something that a human cannot do. Like sort 500 cupcakes into boxes in less than a minute or jump over tall walls or go to areas too environmentally extreme for humans. Bipedal robots in their current stage and for the next decades is not useful enough for people to invest money intoThere are far cheaper, easier to implement designs out there that can be used in all sorts of different scenarios.As much as we want general-purpose robots, the code to do so is not yet there nor the computational power and so for the time being our efforts should be better spent on more meaningful robots that have a direct impact on us.Do you guys agree or disagree and if so, why?I need some inspiration for a major task I have. We need to choose an OLP software from the following list (Vrep, RobotExpert, RobotWorks, Fanuc Robotguide and LT Workspace) which of these is used the most in the industry besides abb robotstudio (can't use that for anti fraud reasons)?also what are some great tasks I could make an industrial robot do? some stuff any of you need during work?I'm having a hard time researching this since it's so niche, any resources one can point me to is also greatly apreciated.A German AI startup wants to upgrade even older industrial robots. The business and pricing model seems promising.The article is in English.https://mrk-blog.de/en/voraus-robotik-instead-of-yuanda-robotics-interview-with-jens-kotlarski/First off, Hi how are you?I'm curious what kind of robotic welder i could get to start producing cattle panels with?the ones in the picture weigh around 140lbs a piece, I don't know if that's a factor on anything.thanksI've been programming 20 years. Building robots, RC cars, 3d printers and cnc machines for about 12. Mostly little simple stepper motor controllers and tool path planning for industrial 6 axis cnc machines, NUM and Fanuc controllers, micron level precision, plus Arduino and random micro electronics.Lately I have ideas to build robots and sell them like a business, but I don't know where to begin. I can make just about anything in my back yard, but how do I go about making something like a roomba commercially?I know all common programing languages, arduino, linux raspberry pi, openCV and I'm teaching myself ROS and FPGA. I have ideas for some awesome robots, but once I get my prototype made... then what? I have a basic RC car that drives around the yard on it's own. It's all bare wires and batteries. Roomba is just beautiful in it's design and simplicity. I tend to use sticky tape and zip ties.Any books or websites or random conversations you could help me with would be appreciated. Hell I'll buy you a pizza or something if you'll do a zoom meeting.Thank you so much.So I got a full on industrial robot, 3 phase, 6 axis, weighs 2 tons, and can carry 300lbs. I’ve only had it for around a month now and I’ve programmed it to make...s’mores, because what’s better than a giant robot doing really small tasks. So if anyone has any good ideas for projects, making things with it, things to mount on it, or things to destroy with it, leave a comment.I work in a facility were we have the top 4 robots (waterjetting) and I'm looking at the best offline editing software. I have robotstudio as you can use base program without paying, but it doesn't appear anyone else does that, rather than have 4 different programs I figure we might want to look into one that can be used for all four brands...ThanksWhat do you think big tech companies/startup/investors will put money on/hire people for in the next 5 years?For now, I see that ML/AI is top, then CV, and control/hardware last and I’m curious about what insiders’ thoughts are.I love the software programming part of robotics. The ability to integrate sensors, algorithms, and actuators with software is a fun puzzle for me. I have two job opportunities and I don’t know which one will help me become a full time robotic software engineer in the future.One is for a robotics engineer position with a manufacturing team. Working with supplier vision systems and integrating with Fanuc robots.The other is a software engineering position for converting other engineer’s teams hardware-in-the-loop tools to work in a virtual environment.I have a B.S. in mechanical and M.S. in mechatronics. The robotic position will have fewer opportunities to code, other than in Fanuc’s software. The Virtual development role will have many coding projects in C# and python.Which role would best prepare me to land my dream role in the future? Is software experience more valuable for or robotic hardware experience when it comes to the robotic software careerAs a society, we do have some classical machinery that in recent years can probably fit the definition of robots, like: cars, planes, trains, ships, farming equipment, probably even elevators, etc. What I don't understand is why robotics is still not prevalent and why do so many people actually try to make it happen. For example, programmers keep focusing on incredibly saturated fields like web technologies, while in comparison the real world is wide open for automation in all sorts of sci-fi ways.I wonder if people fail to see that or I fail to see issues internal to the field that are non-obvious to people outside the field.Having a difficulty to choose between two sensors for your project?Do you hesitate between which motor is the more suited for you robot arm?Or are you questioning yourself about a potential robotic-oriented career?Wishing to obtain a simple answer about what purpose this robot have?This thread is here for you ! Ask away. Don't forget, be civil, be nice!This thread is for:Broad questions about roboticsQuestions about your projectRecommendationsCareer oriented questionsHelp for your robotics projectsEtc...ARCHIVES_____________________________________Note: If your question is more technical, shows more in-depth content and work behind it as well with prior research about how to resolve it, we gladly invite you to submit a self-post.Hi All,Wanted to share a mostly completed project of mine. I am an Electrical and Mechanical Engineer with a love of robotics (even though I don't do any of this directly for work). At the beginning of COVID lockdowns, a local industrial surplus shop was selling a bunch of used SCARA robots for <$200, all without cables or controls. I had some robotics experience and access to controls equipment, so I figured it would make a fun project. These are some of the largest SCARA robots I've seen with a 32" reach and a weight of 130lbs.You can look up the full project log here, but in short the project went through a few main phases:Identification of hardware, wiring, specifications, manuals, etc. (Hard when nothing exists on the internet for this particular robot).Attempts to control the proprietary Yaskawa servo motors without commutation feedback.Analysis and decomposition of proprietary Yaskawa encoder feedbackDesign of adapter PCB to convert Yaskawa proprietary encoder feedback to standard incremental with hall effect encoder signals.Integration of custom PCB with A-B Ultra 3000 AC servo drives with custom motor profiles.Integration of servo drives with analog servo PLC modules and an A-B PLC with robot kinematicsDesign of an HMI to control the robot (in progress)Design of custom PLC logic to interpret G-Code to allow offline programming of the robot using standard CAD/CAM software packages (in progress)I am currently working on a side project with a coworker of mine, but in order to get this project started we need access to a small robot, like if we could get our hands on an ABB IRB 120 for cheap that would be fantastic, the only issue here is money. Does anyone know of any substitutes for less than 10k? Obviously I don't expect it to be super high quality at all for that price and it'll only have to lift a couple pounds at a time, but this is the first time I've ever had to consider shopping for a robot and I have no idea where to begin in that regards, I've only ever known Fanuc and ABB. Some help would be much appreciated.Hi everyone!I am planning to build a 6-DOF robotic arm and a few other robots (spider and maybe humanoid).I already have designs and plan in mind.All robots are going to be simple on initial stages (controlled via pad or keyboard) and I am thinking of adding some AI on later stages (camera, object/color/shape recognition, distance calculation, etc.).robots are not going to be taller/wider than 50cmI am planning to build robots based on Raspberry Pi 4b as it is realtively easy to get locally.Question: how much RAM is the minimum requirement for abovementioned robots (with or without AI) ?Would 2GB version of Raspberry Pi 4b be sufficient for all (incl. AI) ?Thanks in advance for all replies and recommendations.At a German factory owned by chainsaw manufacturer Andreas Stihl, an employee used to lift each product to shake it. This was done as part of quality control. This added up to an incredible 8 tons per day. Now, a robot from Fanuc does this, as the English-language article with video shows.https://mrk-blog.de/en/cobots-haelt-fanuc-den-ergonomie-rekord/My robotic arm wont be delivered until 6 weeks from now and im running out if time.i need a good software simulator so i start programming it so when it comes i dont waste time . ThanksI need help selecting a robot for an R&D project.Purpose: to move a pneumatic actuator into position that will press on a part with 2-3kg of force for 10seconds. The robot will be completly stopped when the actuator starts. Speed is not a big issue. Repeatability of 0.05mm would be ideal. Reach needed is about 600mm. End of arm tool will weigh about 2-3kg I'm guessingI'm nervous about the rigidity of the robot and the external load from the pneumatics will fault or hurt the robot long term.My first thought was a fanuc LRMate, but I'm trying to keep my budget to within $15k USD. I've been searching the used market but haven't one and don't know other brands very well.Any advice is appreciated.I have just started learning robotics by using Fanuc robot. Until now I have tackled some machine learning tasks using Python as a engineer and realized how well machine learning solved problems. So I wonder if I can use machine learning methods, especially reinforcement learning to make teaching robots more effective. I asked my boss about my idea but he answered that it is not suitable because in almost all situation you only use a teach pendant instead of programming languages. That is true?I have not used a real robot arm before. I just wonder why ones from Universal Robots, such as UR5e, are significantly more expensive than other brands'. For instance, I found a seller where a UR5e is around $36K, while a manufacturer called UFACTORY sells a similar arm that they produce for $9K.What makes this huge gap, even though they look very similar in terms of functionality? Is this mostly because of the quality/robustness of the hardware or the size of the community of using it that would be correlated with the software support? Do you think that extra cost is worth?Why aren't there more companies making industrial robots / automation? In all videos / photos from any factory I see only a handful of companies, like Kuka, ABB, Fanuc etc.And why it's mostly only the car industry that's highly roboticized?For example when I look at the factories in China, it's mostly just humans doing most of the work. In the West it's mostly only car companies that still exist, and they have robots everywhere.As a recent robotics masters graduate I have been looking around for a full time jobs(USA, California). I noticed the skills required for full-time roles vs the college skills I earned are far.Example:-Python in college, mostly c++ in industry2.Matlab for robot arm programming in college, PLC programming in industry.3. None in college, classical methods in SLAM roles in industry.4.None in college, learning methods for perception in industry.Don't know where I can learn practical skills of robotics like PLC programming for robot arms, learning methods for perception.How to fill this void and what fields in Robotics jobs do you think are recession proof.?We're looking for robot arm hardware to perform research on, with the intention of adding different types of sensory input to end effectors. From our precursory research, Rethink Sawyer and Universal Robots appear to have the most flexibility for building custom programs using their SDKs, but since the end use case of our products will be applicable to any industrial robot, we're also looking at manufacturers like ABB, Fanuc, Kuka, Mitsubishi, Yaskawa, Omron, etc.Most of the robots appear to have a proprietary GUI to program basic routines, but we need the grippers and arms to intelligently respond to the additional sensory and vision inputs of our devices. We'd like to find a setup that makes it easy to integrate and test our technology. It should provide a simulation environment, but also allow online programming without the need to build out drivers from scratch. It looks like ROS and RoboDK offer good frameworks for this application, but some robots are more supported than others.Finally, since we're primarily concerned about testing the grippers, we'd like to ensure that we have a development platform that can be generalized to other robot arms in the future. It would be ideal if the grippers we tested were compatible across multiple robots without requiring significant modifications or custom couplers.Does anyone have any good advice as to which robots and grippers would be best suited for this type of application? What else should we be considering? Links to any relevant resources would be greatly appreciated.Hi,I'm a senior in a mechatronics engineering degree and our senior project is to use a SCARA robot to pick and place vinyl records as they come off the press. My question mainly is knowing that I need at least 650 mm of arm length and 250 mm in z. How do I go about buying a used robot? (it has to be used). I want to make sure that when I purchase a lets say FANUC or Epson that I am getting a fully functioning ready to go robot either it has the controller with it or the controller is integrated. Is it hard to get the programming software? If I buy a 2005 Epson how can I get the 2005 software you get what I mean?Our specific needs are as follows:at least 250 mm in the Z axisat least 600 mm reachmax payload of at least 2 kgrobot is fully assembled/comes with everything ready to go and ready to programPlease let me know what I need to know and I'll answer all questions that you need.I believe I am qualified for a position in robotics, maybe as a junior. What would be a good place to look, such as a job board, where I can find jobs?I have experience building robotic vehicles academically, professionally, and now in my spare time. I mostly like to work in a "startup" environment where the projects are small enough that I get to contribute to many different areas of the development rather than focusing on one small component within a large team.Any suggestions on where to look for jobs?My background:I come from a mechanical(ish) engineering field but I have been programming with various languages for years. I am currently working as a web developer because I wanted to earn money while learning programming (which is what I love to do). I also am very handy and I really enjoy designing and building custom parts using whatever raw materials I have access to. I have some experience with electrical engineering, but nothing too advanced, just enough that I can source and wire together the sensors/powerSupply/controllers/motors/etc together to make it work.I have been a home builder for a long time and recently I have been thinking about the inefficiencies of site building homes.I came across one company who is doing this type of automation. They are in Sweden and I have a call with them scheduled for this coming week. Video below:Randek ZerolaborThe question I have is: how difficult is this automation to program?If the price is in the millions (as I expect it to be) for an off the shelf solution, how difficult would it be to recreate this functionality for say 200-300k using off the shelf kuka/fanuc robots and off the shelf indexing conveyors & CAD/CAM software?If this is viable I would be very interested in retaining a consultant/ robotics specialist to explore this idea and concept it out. If anyone on this sub has experience in industrial automation, please reach out.ThanksI'm curious how the arm holds up over time and if it met expectations. It seems more affordable relative to similar arms.Anyone have any experience with chris anins AR3 DIY 6th axis robot? Is it worth getting for a small robot to help with automating small industry projects?Hi, I am a fresh control engineer who works in industrial automation and PLC programming for industrial plants. Advances I have seen in robotics and their integration in production seem revolutionary. I wanted to get advice on how should I go and learn the skill set necessary for programming industrial robots and their integration into plants. I have found out about ROS and offline robot programmer suits and production line simulator solutions, but I am kind of overwhelmed at where should I start and what would be most beneficial to me.Any advice is appreciated.Hi all! I really hope I'm not troubling you guys too much by asking this question but an hour of googling only made me more confused than anything. I'm familiar with python, lua, java, C and C++. Earlier this year, my school had a programme where they taught my class some basic stuff (we used an arduino C320A Embedded system lite) then had us compete with each other as a way to introduce us to robotics. I found the programming aspect of it pretty simple but found out I had almost no knowledge of the assembly of things, like why A is connected B , and why C is in this pin and not the other one etc . I'm trying to get deeper into it now but I'm overwhelmed with all the choices. Should I get a lego mindstorms NXT? Or a construction kit? Or maybe something else? If someone could point me in the right direction, I'll be incredibly grateful!Tldr: I'm pretty good with the programming part of robotics but not much with anything else, so what do I buy and whyHey everyone, I'm looking for information on how to get into welding robotics, programming, automation etc. or whatever could help me get my foot in the door to that side of things.Some background, I have about 6 years experience of welding and have my CWI (certified welding inspector) credential and basically want to expand my career into robotics because I feel a bit stagnant where I'm at and there's not going to be less robotic welders in the future. Currently, the only education I have is an associate in industrial management. My current job consists of training new welders and doing weld quality checks every so often as well.My current plan to "bridge the gap" between welding and robotics so to speak, is getting a degree in software engineering. I chose this degree because I need something I can do online and it's about the closest thing I can think of that will help me achieve my goals.I just want some honest feedback if this plan is the best path forward or if there's something different I could be doing. I'm open to any advice on any additional seminars, classes, resources, etc. I could use to be better prepared for the career switch.A little about my background. I have a Masters in Electrical and computer engineering[US], Bachelors in Electronics[India], and have about 4 years of work experience. Currently working as a Controls Engineer in a manufacturing environment. I am skilled in working with PLC's, HMI's, and drives. My current work is in maintenance and revolves around troubleshooting faults/failures, doing root cause analysis, and some part of the integration of machines. I had the opportunity to receive a 5-day training for Fanuc Handling tool operation and programming which got me familiar with frames, jogging, handling IO. I enjoy working in the field of automation and would like to get out of maintenance and work either in the design or programming side of robotics/automation.What are the list of skills needed to become a robotics or automation engineerAre there any good educational courses/projects available online?What are the best companies that I can get into?I would really appreciate if you guys could kindly give me some direction. Thanks!I'm looking for information if someone already attempted a distributed simulation where there are multiple robots and each can be simulated by a different physics engine (physx? mujoco?) and can all interact in the same environment.Interactions can be simple (rigid bodies mostly). I'm thinking how the various robots could interact with each other and where should the interaction forces/states live or be synchronizedThis might be a very dumb question. But I thought, I will give it a shot.Right now the robotics arm market is dominated by few players like Kuka, Fanuc, et.al. How do you think the future of robotics automation going to pan out. Will these companies continue to dominate, or will many company will start investing in developing their own in-house robotics teams. I mean, software development, machine learning/analytics, they started as services, but as their business impact increased, most companies started building in-house teams for these.So similarly, for robotics, would this happen. I mean, I really don't think robotics arm is all that rocket science. It is doable with enough maths, design, programming, and project management. Would this happen though ?Hello! I'm currently studying for a MSc in cybernetics engineering and soon I'll have to do a large project which will probably be the starting point for my master thesis in about 8 months. Although I do have four years worth of knowledge about EE, programming, control systems, embedded system etc. I don't really know much about industrial robots in practice.. I'm looking for some input from people who have experience and have worked with industrial robots, especially programmed in RAPID for ABB robots.A project that I found which seems interesting is about making industrial robots collaborate when manipulating a single object. Apparently this project requires a lot of programming in RAPID for ABB robots but I have zero experience with it. I have started looking at youtube tutorials etc. to find out how it is but I'd really like to know peoples opinions on working with this language and robotics in general. Also I have few specific questions.Is RAPID "fun" to work with? By fun I mean being able to effectively work on functionality and implementation instead of silly impossible-to-understand compiler warnings and so on. Is RAPID developers at all sough by industry? Is it somewhat future oriented? What are the most annoying things about programming robots like this? Does a project like this about collaborating industrial robots seem like a project "worth" working on?I have literally hundreds of other projects to chose from, so if this doesn't really seem like a good project I'd really like to know so I can find something else! Any input is appreciated!TLDR; Working in RAPID, is it interesting and is it worth learning?I graduated a while back with a robotics MS and I have found the job market really bad. I think I can get a generic software job without too much trouble but if I want to work in actual robotics(Autonomous stuff) it's almost impossible.I'm wondering if I'm unique or if in general the field is shit right now?Title.I'm an industrial maintenance apprentice, at work on a weekend for PMs. I work with FANUC and Motoman robots, but will be focusing on FANUCs today, for 7 more hours. If you have any questions or want to see anything, let me know.If you are interested in getting into industrial maintenance, I might be able to help you there too.For obvious reasons, I can't share where I work, or show our production process or other proprietary crap, but robots are fair game (as far as I know)If you have or are currently working in the field of robotics, what did you do and how did you get there?I'm currently a senior in computer engineering seemingly headed for a career in software, but I'm entertaining the idea of heading into robotics. I've taken a handful of robotics classes and have done a lot of independent projects involving robots (with heavy emphasis on the arduino platform). Thoughts?I'm currently facing a rather weird problem.To make it short: Anyone got an idea how I can pass a high speed data connection through an robot?The robot I'm working with is an 6 axis arm. There is an electrical port I can use that has 10 contacts (of which I will need at least 3 for power). Those are neither shielded nor twisted pair and run parallel to the motor cables for at least 1 meter.I need some form of high speed connection, as I plan on mounting various sensors, including a camera to the front, so it would need to be either USB or Ethernet in some form.I'm aware that I could use wifi, but as the environment is kind of terrible for any kind of wireless communication I was wondering if there was a better solution.Hey r/roboticsTL:DR – I’m looking for problems people face in their work.I am a student in a class that focusses on finding problems and finding if their is a potential on the market. Half of my team is engineering-focused, and the other half is business-focused.I’m reaching out to experienced professionals in this subreddit to learn from you. People that have been in the trade for many years. I am reaching to you for this specific experience.Even if you enjoy your work, there are likely tasks that you find frustrating, time-consuming, or difficult. These are the problems I want to hear about.It could be an injury you have because of the trade, it could be something you do each day for 30 minutes that you feel could be automated, something that is heavy and difficult to handle, something that takes energy, something that takes too much concentration, it could be anything.Your insights would be really helpful to us. Thank you!I’m new to Reddit and not sure if this is the right place to ask this, let me know if I should delete this post.I’m working on an advanced application with FANUC robots in and I need to do some work in KAREL to perform several functions in the cell. Does anyone know if you can run KAREL programs in Roboguide? It’s been a while since I’ve had to use KAREL so I want to brush up on it before the equipment arrives.Thanks in advance!I’m looking into this apprenticeship program at CMU. I have looked at the curriculum and it sounds interesting and some of it overlaps with some of my coursework. I’m a computer science major (have taken java classes that went from 0 to javaFX) but I don’t think I want to be a programmer. I think I’d prefer something a little more hands on. So I’d like to know what robotics technicians actually do all day and what training I’d need. Also I guess I can look this up but if you can give any information on salary I’d rather hear it from experience. Thanks.The company I'm at acquired a small business that has a fairly usable stock of industrial robots (Fanuc, ABB, etc) and the engineers that came with it are quite experienced at setting them up.Their management, marketing, and sales has mostly left and it wasn't the greatest hand over so we're trying to make the most out of selling the assets and accompanying services (programming, setup, etc).I've been put on this project, and I haven't much experience in the field. Where could I go, preferably starting online, to find customers for industrial robots? I don't mind manually working sales and communicating what we've got to potential customers. But I need to be able to find them first, I have no idea where to look.Thanks!I was looking to learn a cad software for an upcoming robotics competition but I dont have much prior experience with either so i need a software that is easy to learn and use for basic robotics. Which one would you all recommend?Hi! I'm not an expert in robotics by no means but I'm working as a "robotics" teacher for kids between 5-12 years. It will last until June and I'm already running out of ideas. We're supposed to do anything related to stem, really, as some kids are way too young. I don't have budget to buy robotics materials but I can spend a few $$ in crafting materials or something really, really cheap. I have access to android tablets and school computers. Any ideas or fun project to cheer up the classes? My kids already code in Scratch, design sprites and solve basic coding and logic problems. Any ideas are truly appreciated. Thank you so much!!The scenario:Imagine I wanted an automated haircutting business (this is just an anology). I would want a really dependable robot arm for this purpose - maybe even adapt it to incorporate blow dryers, scissors, (again, just an example).If I coded the money/customer handling, the haircutting process, and also built more robotics around the arm, would I legally be able to profit off of a setup that used an arm I did not create?My theory is: Corporations purchase and profit off of them by making products. Therefore if I purchased one, I should be able to profit off of an original service.I built a 3D axis CNC (with an Arduino controller) before. Now I am trying to build an industrial robot arm. I studied the math (FW and Inverse Kinematics), However i am still stuck and not sure how to proceed. Do I use a PLC with structured text language to manually program simple movements ?If so, is it still possible to connect it with a pendant or run a code from fusion cam post processor ?Hey! I'm interested in learning how to program Fanuc/Kuka industrial robots, and I was wondering if there was a hobbyist-level product that is programmed in a similar way. Basically, I'm looking for something that can give me some useful knowledge to carry over when I start studying industrial stuff in earnest.My professor asked me to help him order a bunch of “stuff” (toys) for our electronics/robotics lab. We have already ordered just about everything worthwhile from Sparkfun + Adafruit and have a bunch of money left over.We already have both SLA and filament 3D printers, small industrial 6-axis robotic arm, large Kuka arm, sensors (photo + optics, IMUs, all sorts of digital + analog basic sensors, LiDAR), and some actuators (servos, steppers, DC, some pneumatics (not enough), solenoids, some linear actuators), and some building materials/hardware.I need to order from somewhere that accepts POs (purchase orders) and is a reputable supplier. I also need to order everything from at most 2-3 suppliers.Aside from that I have a lot of freedom to decide what to get.Some thoughts are:building materials (aluminum extrusion, more printer material)an open sourced robotic armopen sourced arial drone kits or materials to experiment theresome sort of satellite related kits or components (the program is going to launch a satellite in the next couple years and this could be an opportunity to get learning/starter materials for that projectnew and fun sensorslots of actuators (pneumatic, hydraulic, nice servos, etc)digital + audio displaysRF equipmentOn my goal to rebuild a 6DOF robot that im working with at work im currently trying to build axis 4,5 and 6 (once i have the gear for axis 5 build).Currently im trying to figure out which gear would work fit the best for axis 3 and the 5th one i have to build myself.Im super excited to try it out once its done and to publish the code afterwards.I'm working with a Fanuc R-2000ib 125L paired to a R-30ia controller. The company I'm working for wants to set it up as a palletizing robot. Using pallet tool I believe I've gotten most of it running, but it will not search for pallets,slip sheets or products. Is it just something I'm missing in the code or a setting? I'm rather lost, any help is appreciated :)It looks like the curriculum I kinda made for myself but actually there with help. I would like if it wasent a pay as u go thing and was instead a one time purchase without the coaching and internship placement.I kinda wanted to take that for a fun learning after work but has anyone taken it before? How was the material they gave and if u passed how long did it take roughly in study hours verse what the predicted timeline is? Also how prepared did you feel after working if that was your way in to enterprise?What kind of background would you need to get into this?Are there good colleges to go for this? I'm kinda of wary about that since I went to a local trade school for CNC machining, and the curriculum was completely outdated.Would it be best to be trained by a company that services industrial robots like this?https://www.leoni-factory-automation.com/en/products-and-services/automation-systems-training/Would it be best to be directly trained by a company like ABB, FANUC, Motoman, Kuka, etc? Is it best to specialize in programming a particular brand? Is it best to learn to program with a teach pendant or offline program with something like MasterCAM's RobotMaster or SputCAM Robot?How helpful is it to learn maintenance as well? Or is that something that'd normally be left to someone who specializes in that?How much does it cost, how long does it take, and what kind of wage or salary can you expect to make to start?I was watching some videos of Kuka robots milling sculptures out of stone and it absolutely fascinated me, so I looked into what kind of education you'd need for this line of work and I'm having a hard time finding out what the best path would be.Posted in Fanuc as well:Hi guys. Been messing with robots for a few years now, but never any I/O stuff.I have 3 Arcmate 100i’s with rj2 controllers and I’m wanting to put I/O boards in them and start learning how to work with it.What I’m hung up on now is I’ve narrowed the boards down to either CA board or CB board (don’t have the model numbers currently) but I’m not sure which one is needed. CA has additional ports for the welding device but since that’s already hooked up, I can opt for the CB board instead right?Secondly, the board has 2 CRM ports that are 50 pin, and from what i understand is I will have to get a Honda MR50L connector and cable to hook into it, and I have the wiring diagram for each pin, but I’m unsure what to run this cable to? The book only says “peripheral device”. Would a terminal block work?Thirdly, does every pin need to be connected to something (aside from the DO/DI pins) or do I just wire in my sensors and actuators?Fourth thing, how do I go about configuring these I/O? I haven’t came across this part in the manuals yet, but I’m sure I’d find it eventually. I’m still wrapping my head around Rack, Slot, Start ar this point. Everything I come across online is always for DeviceNet or Ethernet so I’m at a loss here.I know it’s old equipment, but it’s what I’ve got, and it’s served me well so far. Being so old, it’s hard to find any sort of guidance on these things, so everything I’ve done so far just been trial and error. Hopefully in the future after learning more and getting more comfortable I can upgrade to the newer technologies.I (22M) am currently in my final year of my Bachelor in robotics engineering. I have recently joined this sub and I’ve seen many negative posts about it as a whole whether it’s about finding jobs, pay, bad experience, and even regret becoming a robotics engineer or studying it during undergrad. I honestly thought going into this major would bear a fruitful path since it is the way of the future and balances between mechanical electrical and computer engineering. Did I choose the wrong direction in engineering? Am I going to be struggling to find jobs? honestly I was very surprised when I saw all those posts here and now I’m wondering if I should’ve gone into a different engineering field. I would like to hear your thoughts on this and any advice would be appreciated.Hello all!So due to the Covid crisis I have been laid off. It sucks and all that, but I’m searching for my next position I was a Robotic Technician at a metal cutting facility. We strictly used ABB Robots.Here is my question. I feel comfortable and knowledgeable with ABB’s RAPID programming and the nomenclature associated with it. How will that translate if I begin to work for a company who uses a different brand of robot, such as Motoman/Fanuc? Will I be ahead of the game a bit, or are they pretty drastically different?Any advice, or examples would be greatly appreciated!Thanks!Hi Guys,Does anyone know of any online tutorials for the G3 Teach pendant on a panasonic robotic welder. See lots of stuff for motoman and fanuc but nothing for panasonic. Not sure if this is the right spot for this but hopefully someone will steer me in the right direction.My 3D printed robot arm isn't strong enough for the payload I needed it to carry so I'm looking into alternatives. I found this MyCobot robotic arm but it can only handle a max payload of 250g. I am looking for one that can handle at least 1kg payload and my budget is $2k or less. Are there any other robot arms that I could look into? Preferably one that can fit on a desk, other than that I don't care if it's used or not.I programmed a few fanuc robots on the F-35 assembly line. Now I'm moving to Colorado to try something new. Any robotics in Colorado?