I am an experienced programmer, but I have only done it for Haas ,Fanuc, and Mazak, never had any machines with a siemens control.I was sent a job position that wants Mastercam and siemens experience.Is there alot of specific siemens G-code formatting that needs to be known to get a program to run?How different is it compared to a Fanuc??I appreciate any adviceHello,I wanted to know if these machines was running with a Windows or a Custom OS ?I'm not an Automation engineerThank your/MachinistsNot sure what to make of my new employerHi everyone. So I’m starting to look into milling machines for after I graduate, if you don’t need my whole life story, I don’t know whether to go with Siemens or Syntec. I’m looking at the SYIL X7 or X9, Magazine ATC, Renishaw tool and part probing. and there’s a high possibility for a 4th axis or 5th reunion in the future. I use fusion for CAM.The only thing I’m not experienced with and can’t find any information with is that I’m torn between the Syntec controller option and the Siemens Controller option. I don’t see myself doing conversational too much, but it is in the cards and I have used it on the machines at college. From what I can tell the Siemens 808 is a bit nicer and more intuitive for UI, but as far as physical interface the Syntec seems nicer and I like the staging and current tool monitor as well as the start stop button placement.For my experiences I am very well acclimated with the Hurco winMAX system as I’ve run a VM20i 4th axis often and it’s by far my favorite interface from button placement to panel orientation to UI and even conversational, how easy part probing is. I’m decently acquainted with the HAAS controller as I’ve ran the VF3 2+3 axis a bit. I also use a haas TL lathe at work and a tormach slant pro lathe.All thoughts and opinions are appreciated!!What is the best control in your opinion and why?Pros and cons about the dmu 50?Its with 20k hsk spindle, ph 150 cell and spindle grow sensor.We can run both control, and we think both are easy to use, but witch control runs better with cam/ fusion 360?Looking for someone with experience with all of the above, but either side can certainly chime in. If you were buying a brand new VMC and had the choice would you choose a Siemens, Heidenhain or a Fanuc I Plus control? For background, I don't really have a background with any of them coming off a Fadal and do not currently have employees.r/retroidAnyone know how to set the guncon binding through Duckstation?I am currently using Sinumerik 840d sl controller on one of my cnc machines. A month or so ago controller was failing to boot up, so a friend of my ran a backup and it started working. Unfortunately only these buttons does not work. How can I assign buttons or how can i fix this issue?Whe have a Sino VMC 840p at work with a Siemens 828D siumeric controller. I'm still learning on the mills and so far its going great but i cant seem to find the M-code to run the coolant that keeps the mill clean from shavings under the Table. I can turn on normal flood coolant (M08) and through sindle coolant (M07) but not the other one. Sorry if this is a stupid question but we lost the manual.I have 2 machines in my shop with Siemens Sinumerik 808d controls, I would like to stick with this controller for any additional machines I buy so I don’t have to learn multiple controls. What brands that are available in the USA put this controller on their machines?Maybe not in the right place but I will give it a shot. I want to read the spindle and feed overrides in a NC program but it feels like that’s not possible. Anyone here who has experience with this?The reason for this is that certain parts of our program need a 100% feed and 100% spindle override to ensure good parts and I want to prevent schrap by programming this.Or any siemens controler?Hi Everyone, I have a Siemens 828D on my 4 Axis VMC. I will be machining this Vise trunnion soon, however I have seen online that there are indexable versions available (Moreside Vise Trunnion etc.) and that got me thinking about how I would Structure the WCS system.I am yet to successfully implement CYCLE800, my Fusion 360 Post Processor supports it, however I am unsure of which style to use. I have currently gotten by with using rotary angles and programming off centerline, however I think it will be much easier with a Dynamic work offset type.As you can see, I can index the vise 90° on my zeropoint. Does this mean I will need a new WCS? I assume I will for accuracy reasons, but would that then require CYCLE800?My idea is to machine the part operations with the vice parallel to X, and then index the vice 90° and machine the side operations if required.Basically the questions I need answers for are:Am I overthinking this?Do I even need CYCLE800?How do I setup CYCLE800, assuming the Machine tool builder did not?Does CYCLE800/Dynamic Work Offsets require the 4th Axis to be installed in the exact same spot (centerline from table height etc)? If so, is it easy enough to recalibrate the system each installation?Thank you in advance, many questions and don't know the best place to start!r/OzBargainNewPNY CS1031 2TB NVMe Gen3 M.2 SSD $118 + Delivery ($0 C&C) @ JW ComputerscomHello,Could you explain to me what's the difference between a sinumerik 840d PCU50 vs Operator panel.I see a lot of people at my work considering the sinumerik 840d PCU50 as operator panel instead of IPC.Can you also explain to me the relationship between the 840d, the sinumerik and the PCU50. I already touched this IPC few times but i still don't understand how industrial PC works.PS : I'm not an machinist but working on thesesThankHi, I have a few years experience with the Mill Cam, my company wants me to learn the turning software, I’ve done some basic stuff from YouTube videos but looking for in person training or someone here mentioned that they were taking one on one classes over Skype from someone in Vietnam?ThanksI’m a mechanic at a plant that operates a large number of DSW CNC machines using Sinumerik. I’m wanting to find resources to learn how to use Sinumerik to make my life easier for troubleshooting and repair. I don’t work the programming side, just the mechanics.Fault 10720 software limit switch alarm XM negative.When we run any program we get this error but we can go into MDI and it moves with no error. Siemens 840D controller.r/MachinistsAlcoholism - Skilled Machinists and ProgrammersIs there a way to enable the use of U for incremental moves on the x axis? Presently the controller won’t allow it. It says something about U not being defined.I have been training on the operation of a DMU 65 monoBLOCK with a Siemens controller. Its our shops first 5-axis and kinda a game changer for us.The only issue that has eluded myself and the fellow that has been running it for a year is using the turning mode at an angle. We can turn parts on it, but if we try to swivel the table at an angle it doesnt seem to track the tool tip properly (always wanting to crash). The consensus is the actual programming isnt written properly, something were not doing or maybe doing but we shouldnt, but all the literature we have and even DMG have never shed any light on proper program structure.SO can anyone with experience on these machines shed some light for me to turn a part at an angle with proper tool tracking/dos and donts?FWIW, using CAM software is out of the question. We do have GIBBS at our disposal, however were a job shop and the whole shop will only use it for complex shapes or the machines with crappy conversational. Mentality that its "faster to throw it on the Bridgeport and cut that angle" since we only do 1-3 part orders.Right, I’ve got the most basic request.. how the fuck does one leave a comment within a program. There’s 2 of us in my shop that know Siemens pretty well, and neither of us can figure it out. I know, pretty funny. TIAim am in an engeneering/machienist/drawer/programer bachelor and we work with autodesk and siemens, I have also worked with dasault in the past. and ooohh boy do I HATE NX. it is by far the lest ergonomic and intuitive softwear ever. making sure you are bit in gatway, ooh, you want to change your MCS, you can do it here (it does not work). want to open a STEP file? nha, we are gone makeit way to complicated.the worst part is that uni gave me a fusion360 licence as well and that we have to use inventor for CAD (wich is fine) and then use NX. man I dont get it. what adaventage does NX have? does someone realy like NX?r/Comcast_XfinityPS5 unable to use 5GHz channel on my Arris TG4482aHello,Disclaimer : Sorry I am a total noob about CNC, I only know 3d printer.Today I find an old machine, it looks like a big CNC and have an external Siemens console.It uses a Windows 95 computer and a software called Xmold to draw and generate file. Then it is send to the Siemens console through serial port.The file looks like the following :%_N_tf1_MPF;( PP="RSNCPPTNB.TNBPPSIE802D" Params="TNBSIE802D" );( Phase1 - tf1.iso )N10 G54 G64 G17 G40 G153 G90 G0 Z0N20 M28;( Pos:4 - Cone D1 - Fraise Droite D = 6 - Diam= 6 mm );( Chemin 1 );( Fraise Droite D = 6 )N30 M6 T4N40 D1N50 M3 S20000 F9000N60 G0 X53 Y-3N70 Z10N80 Z5N90 G1 Z-11 F4500N100 F9000N110 X-3 F9000N120 Y53N130 X53N140 Y-3N150 G0 Z10N160 Z30N170 G153 Z0N180 M5 M29N190 G153 X-100 Y-100N200 M2;( End MPF )Read morer/MachinistsAlcoholism - Skilled Machinists and ProgrammersHi,I’m an IT Security, I would like to access to the windows of the machine quoted in the title.Do you know what the shortcut for it ? When the pc is starting I see the windows and then the sinumerik program starting over windows.I have big panel with casual windows keyboard but the alt tab doesn’t work on the machiner/VORONDesignTrident z axis bed homing problemTrying to do a simulation on Siemens 828d (dugard lathe) and every program it's stuck on this. Anyone know any solutions? Thanks!r/MachinistsAlcoholism - Skilled Machinists and ProgrammersI have the opportunity to work at two different aerospace companies, both offering similar pay. Here are the details for each:Company 1Size: Larger, with about 80 employeesSoftware: Uses Siemens NX for CAM programmingMaterials: Primarily machines aluminum partsEquipment: Uses high-end multi axis CNC machines and CMMsCompany 2Size: Smaller, with about 13 employeesSoftware: Uses Mastercam for CAM programmingMaterials: Primarily machines castingsEquipment: Also uses high-end multi axis CNC machines and CMMsWhich company would provide a more valuable experience for me?r/HeadphoneAdviceAnyone use Shure se846?Looking for a few pointers for a canned cycle for a 2 axis lathe. Ive never run this control and trying to figure out what im doing wrong for the syntaxes.If anyone can point me to some resources or answer a few questions I would greatly appreciate itLong story short, I'm 23, trying to reverse engineer the manual on a Fryer EL-18 CNC lathe, and certain G codes do not behave like they are supposed to, ie G33 thread cutting. If anyone can shed some light on maybe different parameter callout other than K for pitch or something to help me along would be greatly appreciated.r/MachinistsA sure sign things are changing in the industryIs there anyone out there that has experience with Siemens NX cam? I'm currently taking a mastercam course at my school and they also offer NX cam after you complete the mastercam sequence. Is it worth taking?I need to find a way to create this on a haas mill. Material is 6061. Turning it on a lathe would be piece of cake but it's off center on flat rectangular bar. We have a tool grinder but I'm not great at it. The angle wouldn't be so much a problem but with the straight counter bore at the top of the hole the tool would have to be perfect. Was thinking of interpolating but not sure it's feasible. Suggestions are appreciated.I recently purchased an Emcoturn 340 lathe from 1990 with a Siemens Sinumerik 810T controller and I was thinking about retrofitting the unit with a new controller.Seeing as fusion 360 doesn't have a post processor for the machine model and I've seen a video of the same lathe running on a centroid oak board I was wonder what the best option would be for me to improve the usability of the machine for around $3-4k.Does anyone have any experience retrofitting this machine or experience using Fusion with it? Could I upgrade to a newer siemens controller or is there an easy retrofit available?r/MachinistsAlcoholism - Skilled Machinists and ProgrammersHi. I am new to the SINUMERIK control system, but at my job we have a robot arm with an extruder for 3D printing that is being controled by SINUMERIK. I know it is not related to machining, but I think this subreddit is the best suited to help me, so please forgive me.The problem is that the arm is not performing the moves smoothly like a regular 3d printer would. It almost stops at every point defined inside the G-code, no matter even if the change of direction is very small, where this slow down of the movement is completely unnecesary. I am thinking that could be some mistake within the set up/start G-code. Maybe there is something wrong or some important command is missing. Can you please take a look at the code provided at let me know what can be improved and potentialy solve this issue?traori(1) ;Enables control in 5 axesT="SEAM-Extruder" ;call the tool$P_PFRAME=CTRANS(X,0,Y,0,Z,0.3)STOPRESOFT;BRISKCOMPCADDYNSEMIFING645 ADIS=15M14=200M15=0M16=30M22G1 Z8 F5000M21M3 S120G4 F1.5G1 X422.500 Y-149.902 Z2.000 ;E47809.9666Read moreI have more pens than I'll use for the rest of the year. What about yall?I broke glass scale connector on my DMU50 ECOLINE 2013. Got new cable and replaced it but coolant got into the scale slider and probably fried it so after swapping the cable i bought a new scale but machine cant see it. If i connect the X axis cable to Y axis scale it works but new scale connected to x axis is totally ignored(same alarms as nothing would be connected to it) alarms 25000 and 26106Does anybody else program or run a machine with a a new or retrofitted Siemens 840D control? We had ours redone hack in 2018, and I swear the machine and the control have been nothing but problems since. Searching into programs is difficult and it seems that we always have to switch to the opposite search mode "with calculation, with approach" or "without calculation, without approach". I should mention that this is a multi channel lathe with one spindle and two turrets.The manuals are practically useless gibberish. Their websites and lingo in general are confusing as hell. This whole experience has made me really reconsider my view on Siemens technology. I'm just wondering if anybody here has had the same experience.Homeowner (non-machinist) Q:What is the BEST, permanent solution to repair stripped TRIPLE-START threads in 16 gauge cold rolled steel? The thread is close — but not the same as 10-32 or M5-0.8 (I can measure the threads more precisely if needed for the best solution.)In order of preference, I would have preferred to use a rivet nut or extruded u nut — or at least a speed nut. My considered solutions include a fall-back solution such as JB-Weld or Loc-Tite thread repair solution.Note: My specific use case is to preserve and match the “proprietary” threads of my “Panel Cover Trim Screws” (Siemens catalog # ECTS2). These are used to attach the cover plate to my 16 gauge steel residential breaker box. (A Siemens G3040 load panel, circa 2009.)I would like to preserve the original screws for at least 3 reasons:It avoids trivial NEC electrical code violation;They have an ultra-wide, low profile truss head of almost 3/4” andThey have both a Robertson #2 and Slot Combination Drive.Was working fine until earlier today when it alarmed out and now all of the sub/cycle (900 series programs) programs are gone, leaving us in the dark on how we should proceed. If anyone has some tips or access to those programs for us we could use it as we use this machine daily.Hello, I'm looking for help setting up a work coordinate system with a Siemens control. It's a 3 axis machine with a rotating table, and I'm having trouble understanding the relationship between the work Z offset and the tool length measurement.I am fine finding the x and y edge and setting those in say, the G505 system, but when I try to touch a tool off on a workpiece it will start the operation several inches above where I "measured" it to.Now, nobody at the company is fluent with the machine, the programs are inefficiently made in conversational (what does that even mean /s), and the manual is moreso a few screenshots rather than a reference.All I want is to enter in mdi, "G0G505X0Y0Z1.0" and have my drill be an inch above the piece. I have plenty of free memory and can play around.Does anybody know of a reference or tutorial for setting up work offsets? Do I have to physically measure the distance from work to table? What does my G505 Z0 setting have to do with where I touch my tools off? I have to run production tommorow so won't have time to tinker.Thanks for any help. Let me know if you need more info.Homeowner (non-machinist) Q:What is the BEST, permanent solution to repair stripped TRIPLE-START threads in 16 gauge cold rolled steel? The thread is close — but not the same as 10-32 or M5-0.8 (I can measure the threads more precisely if needed for the best solution.)In order of preference, I would have preferred to use a rivet nut or extruded u nut — or at least a speed nut. My considered solutions include a fall-back solution such as JB-Weld or Loc-Tite thread repair solution.Note: My specific use case is to preserve and match the “proprietary” threads of my “Panel Cover Trim Screws” (Siemens catalog # ECTS2). These are used to attach the cover plate to my 16 gauge steel residential breaker box. (A Siemens G3040 load panel, circa 2009.)I would like to preserve the original screws for at least 3 reasons:It avoids trivial NEC electrical code violation;They have an ultra-wide, low profile truss head of almost 3/4” andThey have both a Robertson #2 and Slot Combination Drive.What does that mean? How can i fix this problem?I'm trying to set WO (zero on the begining of the part) but I can't.What am i doing wrong?Was working fine until earlier today when it alarmed out and now all of the sub/cycle (900 series programs) programs are gone, leaving us in the dark on how we should proceed. If anyone has some tips or access to those programs for us we could use it as we use this machine daily.What is this H code for?Hello, I'm looking for help setting up a work coordinate system with a Siemens control. It's a 3 axis machine with a rotating table, and I'm having trouble understanding the relationship between the work Z offset and the tool length measurement.I am fine finding the x and y edge and setting those in say, the G505 system, but when I try to touch a tool off on a workpiece it will start the operation several inches above where I "measured" it to.Now, nobody at the company is fluent with the machine, the programs are inefficiently made in conversational (what does that even mean /s), and the manual is moreso a few screenshots rather than a reference.All I want is to enter in mdi, "G0G505X0Y0Z1.0" and have my drill be an inch above the piece. I have plenty of free memory and can play around.Does anybody know of a reference or tutorial for setting up work offsets? Do I have to physically measure the distance from work to table? What does my G505 Z0 setting have to do with where I touch my tools off? I have to run production tommorow so won't have time to tinker.Thanks for any help. Let me know if you need more info.r/EliteDangerousBest hotas for beginners?r/MachinistsAlcoholism - Skilled Machinists and Programmersr/Unity2DGeneral tutorials on unity2d that focus on the big pictureYes.. believe it or not.. I used to be a lathe guy hahahaI was looking for an old picture and came across these bad boys..Circa 2019.. 1950s nishimora 60.00 chuck 352.00 on X Travel. Retro fitted with a Siemens 840i ( I think ) control, that was fun lolBacklash was brutal and different in each gear track but that’s what being a machinist is all about 👊Enjoy 🍻Right now, my work has me on an assembly job because they needed someone who actually knows how to read a print. Ive been on this job for a few months now, and I don't want my skills to decline.Is there a program where I can virtually program parts with g code? It'd be awesome if it also had some 3d elements that show the toolpaths.r/baseballcardsFinally got one!! Topps 392 Luis Robert Running SSPI've a potential appointment with a Haas this week (not a professional machinist), haven't touched a machine in a while so I'm kind of excited. But just going through videos and stuff, from what I see I am a little uncomfortable with the idea of manually jogging this machine or slowly running a first-time program. I've used Fanuc, Mitsubishi and Siemens controls before, and all of them have had a feedrate override knobs(not a rapid override, does the feed override also apply to rapids?), axis selector knobs and a bunch of different handwheel jog increments. I am probably overthinking this but the idea that I won't have a feed override to halt the machine and slowly bring it down as it's about to take it's first cut, pausing and reading the distance to go, without taking my hand off the knob, seems a little scary to me. Has anyone had any experience going from a knob-based input set to the haas-style setups? Am I overthinking it, is it a learning curve? Am I going to be paranoid and spend 25 minutes trying to touch off a tool on the lowest increment from 30 mm above the part again?Purchased this small 5 axis CNC mill because why not! It's got a Fagor controller on it, ISO20 holder. Anyone has info regarding this machine? What is the capacity? Anyone ran this? Thanks!What you guys use for CAD and CAM software?r/FASCAmazonZappos Reset?Student learning CNC here, I was wondering if you all had an opinion on when to use R for circular interpolation vs using IJK. I sometimes have a hard time figuring out IJK, so if you all also have any tips for that, I really appreciate it!r/PokemonGOValorGood progress?4Hello,I am urgently looking for a programmer who knows how to program SINUMERIK 840 machines, I'm also searching for someone capable of performing the commissioning of the machine for an installation at Volkswagen. Good working conditions and very high salary are offered due to the urgency of the service, which must start as soon as possible. If you are interested reply to this post or send me a message, even if you know someone who might be interested or know where I can find someone do not hesitate to write me. Thanksim talking mainly about thread milling. mastercam does it without a blink. nx gives nothing but errors until you mess around and regenerate for a million times overCalling all programmers! What software does everyone like for programming? Particularly for an integrex and/or UMC500. My shop currently uses bobcad/cam, this is all I’ve used and I feel like there has to be a better option available at a similar price point. It does great for general 3 axis mill stuff but once you get into multi axis programming it is frustrating as hell! One of our problems is post processors, you buy a post for a particular machine and it never works properly. They give you one free maintenance call or whatever, to fix it but it still never works right. Unfortunately the owner of my shop isn’t willing to spend top dollar, so mastercam and solid works is out of the question. Multiple people have told me fusion 360 is fantastic and cheap, with every post processor imaginable available for free. It sounds too good to be true, but there are days where I want to walk out of the building because of how terrible bobcad is. So please, enlighten me so I can pass on information to the man that cuts the checks.Can anybody suggest me best cnc simulator for PC I'm just a student and want to practice coding and its operation!Super hyped to have added this to my collection. Currently full time working as a swiss screw machinist doing programming and setup on Citizen machines while I go to school for mechanical engineering.Does anyone have a list or link for the M codes specific for a Deckel Maho?I'm just now going from manual machining to cnc, and the first machine I'm learning on is the Deckel Maho 60T. We are a small shop and one of senior guys is retiring in a couple months, that has excellerated my training. My big boss gave me a crash course on set up the other day, but my actual mentor isn't as competent with G/M codes and not quite as confident or knowledgeable about the machine as my big boss. I'd prefer to get more training from the boss, but obviously he doesn't have the time. So here I am, trying to learn more about it in my spare time, not having the best luck so any resources would be appreciated.Started machine up this morning and everything was fine until I went to reference the axis. C moves fine but X,Y, and Z do not move at all. Any ideas? Tried turning off machine and turning it back on after a while. Nothing changed.Thanks in advanceHello, i want to know a little bit more about the ToolData management of our new Mazak i250, currently we are using the group. Nr. (GRUPP. Nr.) for tool calls and also want to keep it that way. To the Question: Is it possible to show the group number in the tool-list to make it easier for the operator?Also what is the WKZ. IDENT used for?Thank you in advance!As beginners, what were some of your best strategies to cope with mistakes and imperfections on your work? Or were you always able to do h7 tolerances in 2 operations with your eyes closed?I started machining on CNC this past september (cincinnati 500, siemens acramatic) and altough I never loved a job so much, i sometimes freak out about "i should be better than this by now!" and sh i could somehow stuff 20 years experience up my ass or something. SighUPDATE: You guys have been incredibly helpful, thanks so much. All great advices, on the techical side and on the mental departmentAnyone have issues with CELOS (Siemens 840D sI) controllers booting up with a stuck E-stop?I've got 3 DMG mori 5ax machines and after a power cycle will randomly get stuck on a e-stop alarm that prevents the power on.Usually a couple power cycles cleared it but just had one not resolve itself after hours and hours.Wondering if this is a common error for the CELOS controller or the machines DMG is giving us...If anyone has operated a newer DMG Mori NLX series lathe I would greatly appreciate the opportunity to talk to you.I am going to be flying to look at a used machine soon and I need to understand some basic start up, spindle on, and jogging operations. The location that this machine is powered on has 0 machine operation experience. I’m going to be working with an independent tech to do some basic runout, backlash, and alignment inspection but he’s never worked on this particular control. I’ve operated several models of lathe but never a Mori and I don’t want to spend 4 hours self teaching while the owner, the tech, and my boss stand around twiddling their thumbs.If you have enough experience to boot up, jog, and spool up the main, sub, and live tooling, give me a shout and I would love to talk.Further, if you’re interested in doing some operator training, we may have a special offer for you.Have a good day!Hello,I am having an issue with spindle speeds when in Handle or Jog mode. I can input speeds in the MDI mode but as soon as I switch to Jog or Handle the spindle slows down considerably and the Spindle speed knob has no effect whatsoever.Is it a parameters issue ? Am I operating it incorrectly? I am relatively new in the field.Edit: Machine VMC1000B 3 axis mill, running on a FANUC Oi-D controller.I’m running a Siemens lathe with Sinumerik controls. Is there a way to view a simulation whilst the machine is cutting similar to the Mazak trace option. I know there’s the simulation pre machining but would like to know if there’s a option to view when the program is running. ThanksWhich machine would you prefer and why? Looking for a new 5 axis mill for general and prototype machining. Accuracy and control openness would be appreciated.For those of you that have bought CNC equipment for your garage or home shop, how hard was it to find work? I have 33 years experience with CNC and Manual. Programmed mostly with Gcode, the machine I am looking at has a Siemens Sinumerik 828D, I also have access to a local programmer that will moonlight for cheap.For those of you who have experienced both. How do you find them? I’ve only done mastercam for solidworks and love being able to change parts on the run (a necessity of the job). My perception of mastercam stand-alone is that you import an STL and if the design changes your fucked. Great for contract manufacturers but maybe abysmal for a team within a company where tweaks are constant.Am I wrong??This came up while running. No alarms or other indication to clue me in to what it is. Anyone seen this before? ~300 hrs on this unit and we’ve never seen it.hi has anybody any experience with the chinese made cnc210. im looking at the siemens controller option. just looking for any feedback or review from somebody who has owned one for any period of time..any issues with importing thru to any issues with the machine itself and what support is availableHi, as the title says, a coolant nozzle got stuck between the spindle and the tool holder. The machine now refuses to move in any axis. The tool holder got slightly pushed down out its resting position in the carousel during the procedure. It refuses to unclamp the tool as it doesn't seems to know it the tool is clamped or unclamped. Any idea how to get it unstuck?Hi, I am looking to fit a VFD to my milling machine. Currently I am looking at siemens, but have no idea what model would work best. In my shop I only have 1phase 240v, and I will be using a 4hp motor. Could sombody help me choosing the model? Or maybe a different brand, but ideally european brand, since I am from europe. Thanks!Our new DMG Mori is one of the most annoying machines I've ever run because of this stupid thing. I can't get in a rhythm of going through menus quickly because I have to wait for the input lag from the first button press to finish up before I can press the second. I can't push buttons by feel while looking in the machine. Plus I get to spend probably dozens of hours over the life of the machine playing the "is the screen lagging or did my button press not take" game because not only do you not get physical feedback that the button is pressed like with a normal button, you can smash your finger dead center on the button several times in a row and it won't take unless it feels like it, so you're forced to sit there and babysit the control at all times instead of focusing on the work. I get it probably looks cool at IMTS but there's literally no pros to adding this shit and many severe cons. Stop.Hey folks, changing jobs soon, ans gonna be jumping onto DMG More lathes, never used one before what are they like? Do they all run the Siemens Shopturn systems? How do they compare to Mazatrol? (Which is what I’m more used to)Any advice appreciated, thanks! Wanna adapt to this new job as quickly as possible after I start!OHIO Machinists: Ready to take your career to the next level? A top-tier shop is seeking a skilled 5-Axis Lead to manage and develop their 5 Axis department.Oversee and develop a team of threeMachines: DMG's & Heller'sLead technology and automation improvements1st shift role with OT availableComprehensive benefits package/401k matchingCHARLOTTE NC: 2 awesome positions at a leading aerospace manufacturer. Relocation bonus available.Both roles are on the 1st shift.CNC Programmer - $120-140k-Programming in Mastercam-5 axis mill programming experience required-Programming complex componentsCNC Machinist III - $36-40/hour-Setting up and operating 5-axis mills-Siemens, Okuma, and Fanuc controlsIve ran both now and prefer Mazak. Just curious what others think.Does it really matter if I haven't ran a Mazak or Haas. We have a couple Fanucs and a Fadal that has whatever controller at the shop and getting familiar with the layouts never took me long at all. To the other end of it, I've found and shared different features the owner was unaware of.Yet, when I look for a job, you have to have experience on said machine. Got snubbed recently and it's eaten me. Am I wrong to think any modern machinist worth his pay could be handed any new control panel and be able to self teach?This is a long shot but might as well try. Long story short I have 3 days to train with the guy who knows how to run this old beast. It's a Cincinnati Milicron Gantry And the control is a Siemens Acromatic which I believe is a retrofit to the original control. Anyone have any advice or experience running these? Any questions I should ask the guy training me ? T.I.A.To handle gov data we cant use a nonsecure cloud based software. I love F360 but sadly this might mean the end of it for our shop (without doing annoying import/export everytime we work on a part).I love NX so Im leaning Solid Edge, but just wanted to hear what others are using.Hi, I am up to buying a small CNC mill. I will be using the machine mainly for prototyping and maybe small production in the near future. I've been looking into these two machines:Tormach 1100MX vs SYIL X7 2020:box way - linear rails cast iron frame - mineral casting (epoxy granite) Spindle: 2 HP BT30 10.000rpm - 4 HP BT30 10 (12.000 rpm 7,5hp optional) Controller: PathPilot - LNC6800 (optional Siemens 808D/A) servo motors - servo motors Travels 457/279/413 - 400/300/380Both have rigid tapping and ATC. I come from Bulgaria so the shipping and toll costs will be comparable. Pricewise they are both around 26-28.000 USD, which is the maximum I can afford at the moment. Size is not a problem. I really like the fact that there is so much information about Tormach. Their community is massive and it seems like most of their customers are more than happy with their machines. SIYL on the other hand is relatively unknown company, I could barely find any reviews about their machines. They are a chinese company but seem to import many of their parts from Europe (Schneeberger mineral casted frame, THK linear bearings, Siemens spindle and controller..). And of course the mineral casting frame which you mainly find on a lot more expensive machines. Combined with linear rails the machine is supposed to be very accurate. On paper they have a lot more value for money but unfortunately there are not many people who can confirm it.I would be grateful if you can advise me which one should I choose.Hey guys,Here are a 3 CNC Setup roles in beautiful North Carolina. All are offering relocation assistance. Please let me know if you're interested in discussing any. CNC Machinist III - 5-Axis Milling | Mooresville, NC$26 - $35 per hour + great benefitsShifts:Wknd shift (Friday, Sat, Sun) available with a shift premium2nd shift also available with a shift premiumMachine brands are Micron and RoboDrillSpotless, state of the art shop. This is a growing company with learning opportunities.Also hiring CNC Machinist I & II here...CNC Multi-Axis Machinist | Mooresville, NC$29 - $36 per hour + great benefits1st shift roleMazak 5-axis CNC mills and lathesVery reputable company in the racing industryCNC Machinist III | Charlotte, NCSOLVED.G’day!We have a newish DMG MORI CMX1100V, that was unfortunately purchased with the fanuc controller (I would have liked the Siemens controller myself & the 20,000rpm spindle.. alas here we are).We are having issues accessing the USB interface once plugged in. I am wondering if the DMG usb they recommend is encoded some how? Can anyone shed any light on this?The other issue we are having is calling a sub-program from external I/O device (DNC), when the main program is in NC memory. The bible that came with the machine says M198 is the 1/0 sub program call. But it just comes up with an error.Cheers in advance!Happy machining.Hello, I recently started programming for a CNC multi spindle lathe that uses a Siemens 840C controller and I had a question about the L97 threading cycle.I'm programming a part with an ID thread and a fine finish requirement on the bottom of the bore. I am having chip issues where my chips from my threader are scratching up the fine finish. I'm adjusting my program to finish this surface after threading but I foresee issues with these same chips getting in-between the way of the tool and leaving a bad finish.I wanted to try using this opposite flank indeed method on L97 to see if it can better evacuate the chips in the bore but I'm not sure how to do it. I can specify the indeed angle on L97 but the programming manual states that it has to be a positive value. Out of curiosity, I tried putting a negative value in there but it looked like it was doing radial indeed based on the lack of chip control. Before I keep farting around to see if I can get L97 to do this, I wanted to know if anyone else has been able to get this to work using this cycle.Tl:Dr; Has anyone been able to get opposite flank indeed working using L97 threading cycle?Hey guys, I’m starting on a project that requires a tree style fixture to machine multiple parts at a time in a 5 axis machine using a Siemens control.Setting up the planes for one part is easy enough. However, it will be required that each part has its own individual work offset.What’s the most efficient way to get this done without having a billion WCS’s and a thousand toolpaths?Transform was my first thought. But I need it to post a rotation THEN a translation.Any help or direction is appreciated. I’ll be happy to fill in any blank space in the question if it helps.Preface. I know lots about the VMC I have experience using, a decade old Haas VF1. I know nothing about CNC lathes, and have used a manual lathe to frustrating success.I want to make the gears and posts and maybe screws in the attached photo. The flatwork I can do in my VMC with some press jigs to handle the bends.I want to make these pieces out of stainless or titanium. If titanium is nonsensical then I’ll stick with stainless.I don’t know enough about Swiss lathe setups to know what I’m looking for in identifying “reasonably” priced used machines that can work the front and back ends of a part, including tapping.A win would be identifying a lathe that can do all the crazy things on 15-25mm bar stock, with a feeder, that would be reliable enough for lights out work and be in the neighborhood of $20-30k used if I found a good deal.Also something that is repair friendly, including the expectation that parts can be found without too much trouble.Can you guys teach me the language I’m missing here when it comes to talking about working both ends and sides, etc? I’m imagining I machine the “top” and sides of my longer part, then the back chuck grabs the part and it is cut off from the front chuck, and I do my finish milling and tap the end that was formerly attached to the rest of the bar… how do you talk about all the different tooling areas on a Swiss mill. Any diagrams or videos out there that are good to watch to learn?A friend who does infrequent Swiss work with one of his contract gigs says they have a Citizen L20 that has all the bells and whistles that could do this… is that correct, and if so, what bells and whistles do I need to make sure a machine has.And… is there a better bang for buck out there?Hello everyone! I am a post processor builder and have an abundance of posts that my company uses every single day. These are proven and have produced thousands of parts. We are venturing into a solutions side of the company. If anyone is in need or interested in purchasing post processors please let me know. These have been tested and used with Siemens NX10, NX11, NX12, NX2206.Willing to create package deals or first time buyer discounts.Currently Available: Okuma 3axis $2500 Okuma 3axis (with tool breakage) $2500 Okuma 4axis (integrated rotary) $2500 Okuma Genos 560 $2500 Okuma Millac 852 $2500 Okuma mb4000 $3000 Okuma mb5000 $3000 Okuma ma600 $3000 Okuma Millac 1000vh $5000 Okuma mu400 $3000 Okuma m460-5ax $3000 Okuma mu500 $3000 Okuma mu6300 $3000 Okuma Millac 853-5ax $4000 Hermle c22 $4000 Hermle c42 $5000 Hermle c62 $5000 Makino T2 $5000 Makino s56 $2500Do most of you guys prefer programming on your machines control, be that fancuc, Siemens, haas, Mitsubishi etc or using CAD software like mastercam, fusion, edgecam etc?I feel like I've spent enough time around grumpy old men to become somewhat one of myself, and so have prior validation to the feelings I have when in the shop. Discuss amongst yourselves:Metric OR Imperial. I honestly think we should just give up imperial. I know it has its merits. But the benefits would quickly outweigh them.The F1-F4 keys on a Haas. Secrets don't make friends. Manuals aren't kept by foremen. The functions need to be labeled for the operators.Using calipers for EVERYTHING. Yeah, it's a handy tool to have, but look here, I can make it read any number I want.Digital Tools are equal to or better than analog tools. The key is calibration, and people forget, that goes for analog tools as well.You get what you pay for - one thousand times over. Wonder why your results are shit? did you consider what you started with?Expectation of perfection on Rev A, %00001%, Op 10, Cycle 1. People see the final product as a polished, pristine, precise, piece of equipment, but don't realize that prototyping that part took a series of workholding experiments, tool limitations to overcome, and available technology.please feel free to add to this list. 2020 is the year of exposing bullshitThe shop I work recently got bought. They are keeping us "independent" but gave us an unspecified budget for 2 more machines. They are a massive sheet metal company and bought us for our machining (we also do sheet metal). We already have 2 Robodrills (one with a pallet changer), a PS65 Makino, A Mazak with Mazatrol, and an SL-20 lathe (which is kinda clapped out). The new owners want us to get a 5-Axis mill and a lathe with live tooling and a sub-spindle. Any recommendations?Hi guys, I wonder if somebody has same problem as me. We have Siemens 802d control on milling machine. When I do cycle stop then I change mode to jog and press spindle stop everything is fine. But when I’m trying to continue the program I can’t start spindle rotation again, like the spindle speed was reset. Maybe somebody can help with that?Y'all! I am interested to see if anyone has ever applied to a job through FactoryFix. They seem like a big network, but I thought I would ask you all first.I work in a job shop in germany, all machines are Mazak and at the moment almost all parts are programmed by the individiual machinist at the machine, except for a few parts a year that are to complicated and i get to go in to the office and programm them using MatrixCAM. Boss decided it is time we step up our game and upgrade to a proper CAM software for future jobs and also standardize and catalog our tooling. That would be my new job in the company and i'm very excited for it! But we're not quiet sure yet wich software to buy, he was looking into Esprit or VISI by Hexagon, or HyperMill. We're also going to the EMO (machinist convention) next month to look there. Advice and opinions on CAM and TMS would be welcome.im thingking of getting the Genos V series of CNC.I have some relatively advanced math and physics training, and I thought as a personal project I'd look into optimization software in your sector. Now, from my preliminary reading it looks like for your purposes optimization can be "defined" one of two ways - shortest path for given part, or least amount of wear on the tool for given part.Maybe these work out to be the same thing, I don't know yet.Which of these is worth looking into? Is there any current software that's already good at these problems?Thanks so muchJoei know it's more of a thing for people, that work in bigger companies, since they're very expensive but are they really that good or impressive? i'm not that experienced in machining itself but i am responsible for some of the TBMs of the machines and i just want to know if they're really 'the best in complete machining'My work acquired a 5-axis DMG Mori a few months back & its really the first 5-axis cnc machine on site. We don't really have any CAM programs right now, so I was hoping to get some advice about CAM software for the below application:I work at an aerospace company that manufactures state of the art lens assemblies in mid wave/long wave IR and visible. Mid Wave IR and long wave IR materials (silicon, ZnSe, germanium, etc.) Can be generated or rough cut on 5 axis mill and finished on a diamond turning lathe. We bought the DMG to be able to rough cut these lenses on site.What are the recommendations for CAM software? I have a decent amount of experience with masterCAM, but the argument presented to me is there are concerns that information is lost when importing step files from solidworks to MasterCAM can be risky. So, some are presenting the case to use SolidworksCAM package. I'm not familiar with that tool at all & tbh I've never heard anyone use it? Any advice is appreciated.So I'm working in a small shop, and I'm currently writing/editing (mostly editing) G code in Notepad++ with help from Macros.We will need a CAD/CAM system to grow the business, but I'm not sure it makes sense for us to spring for SOLIDWORKS and MasterCam just yet.Fusion360 looks like a decent CAD system for us, but I'm not sure that it has integrated CAM or post-processing.Can anyone share their lower-cost CAD/CAM systems that work well for them?Edit: it hasn't been long and I've already gotten a bunch of good suggestions.I just wanna say thank you to everyone for sharing, this is a HUGE help for me.If anyone likes a system that isn't Fusion 360, Bobcad, or Rhino3D, please tell me about it.(I think I'm gonna start with Fusion and see how I like it)Any one seen this before and can give advice as to what’s going on? Has the screen gone?Lathe is running ok, as in I can progress through the program with hard buttons.But nothing is responding on the machine screen or keyboard.Any ideas?Hello everyone. My shop is looking into our first horizontal. We do many dycast and billet aluminum parts in mid run quantities. we are ready to take the next step in production and get a horizontal.We have narrowed it down to two, A Makino A61nx and a DMG Mori NHX4000. I know they are different sizes but the A61 is heavily discounted so that's why we are considering it. Both are very similar in price so that's not an issue. I know both of these companies have great reputations and are considered top tier. We have many Mori lathes and a few DMG mills so we know what we are getting with DMG.It seems to me that the DMG has more standard features and "nice to haves" than the Makino.What are your guys opinions?Im feeling underpaid and its bothering me.I have a history of engineering and studied for a few years and very nearly passed a level 4 qualification but had to leave due to a many factors including the death of a friend.I had worked water jets and Siemens pick and place machines in previous roles but always knew i wanted to set my skills on CNC turning and milling.In England the main way of getting into most machine shops is via and apprenticeship. So i applied to a few and thankfully got plenty of interviews. I accepted an offer because the employer respected that I had a mortgage to pay for and wasnt a 16yr old school leaver and they had the most appealing set up, machine tools, and product. Because of my previous work history as a business development manager in leisure they had admitted that they are struggling and believe that the current staff were ‘up to something’.Indeed they were. Hemorrhaging money with incredibly slow run times and pushing overtime to the max on purpose. ‘Run it slow enough to force them to close and we will claim the redundancy payout’.Over the span of 3 years i have implemented numerous forward thinking strategies and increased production significantly. Making the area safer, more efficient, increasing staff morale, and in-turn, more professional. I am currently paid £11 an hour for being the lead programmer in ISO g code, prototrak, mazatrol, Haas g code , fanuc and some other unique machines. Ordering and monitoring certain stocks and speaking frequently to clients and buddy tool reps. Writing procedures and training programmes. Training staff frequently and I trail blazed a successful new production method.All of this while having to attend a day release to the local college. I consider myself a skilled machinist and my work reflects that. I love this trade and i am genuinely happy i made the choice.Hello all. My boss is finally ready to purchase a new lathe. Just wondering what you guys and girls would recommend. We aren’t looking for anything too fancy. Basic turning. It has to have a good interface that we can program on the machine. He doesn’t want to add a master cam licence. I’d love for it to be able to do mill/turn but he’s afraid the price is going to double or triple. We currently have a 20 year old hybrid lathe that can run manually or programmed, but it has a lot of limitations and all the tool changes are manual. Let me know what you suggest. And thanksI work for an electronics repair company that only works on Fanuc branded controls. And I always have found it baffling how most of the Mitsubishi machines are outfitted with Fanuc controls. Even though Fanuc controls are pretty high qualify, it was my impression that Mitsubishi also makes a pretty decent CNC control.Any ideas on why they don't just use their company's flagship product on their machines?Hey guys, I'm wondering if any of you can help. Many years ago, seriously like 2005ish, I was given a new cnc lathe and a manual and told to figure out how to drive a lathe with siemens 810d powerline. Having only ever done manual before that it was an uphill battle, but one I did win. Now i worked there for a number of years and for our dnc software, we used a program called "katipo" It worked.Now I've been away from this company for some years and recently went in for a visit. In the time I've been away they've had a few managers come and go and it would seem in the fallout of this, the dedicated laptop for this lathe with that software on is gone.I have tried a few different newer dnc programs, but the issue is getting the parameters on the lathe and the software to match. I've not had much success.Is there anyone here who might be chance have a copy of that Katipo software?Hey, so I just saw the thread about tap recommendations and somebody mentioned emuge taps. I looked at their tap selection and saw one called the punch tap and it looks wicked slick for high production aluminum runs. My question is how does the tool path work? I watched videos about it but it seems like the helical move into the hole and the move out of the hole would leave a helix with a high pitch and it would ruin the threads inside. Is there something about it I’m not understanding?I just started in that department at my work, there's 14 different CNC lathes. Fanuc controls, Siemens controls and Haas controls. I need crash coursed in the tools and tool holders, how to touch off, shop math. There's one guy who went to school for it, everyone else I would consider operators. He's always busy so I need to learn what I can on my own. Any advice would be appreciated!Hi, i got 2 Problems with This machine and no one around here knows how it Works. Nr. 1 is the error Code 700155, i dont Know how to get rid of it and its only there when the Chuck is clamped. Nr.2. How do you use the Tool measuring thingy Seen in the picture? Dont want to Set the Tools on the workpiece If there is another/better way. Thanks in advance.Hi there folks! I have completed a manufacturing engineering apprenticeship and have now moved on to studying a HNC. As machining is a trade which is very broad in its spectrum of activities, I have been left in a position where the experienced members of staff have left the business and I no longer have any mentors. I have done plenty of reading and researching in my own time and have gained what I would consider foundational experience in this trade.I have a lot of PDFs from the internet I have downloaded as their is such a vast array of information required at times (I cant memorize everything).I have been given the label of a technician and I cant help but feel it is because there is no one else who can answer some of the questions I can, however I do not know the reason for every problem or how to implement an improvement in every case. There are a few things I think could help me in my job role however I find it hard to find where to get some of this training,guidance etc. It seems like industry skills and some really helpful knowledge is hidden behind a paywall of training packages provided by the very companies that provide the application software and machinery itself.Here are a few considerations:-A lot of our machines are running different versions of Siemens control and I feel confident using it however I would like to understand it more, for example how to understand and read the kinematics page. in some of the deeper layers of the control system there is a lot of synonyms, jargon and codes to decipher. This would be especially helpful when there are PLC errors present. (DBX etc....)Does anyone know what steps to take to get to a level where I can confidently find the information I need in the control system, is there any good training courses? I have manuals but I feel like I need a more hands on experience with someone who knows.Hopefully someone can give me some simple specific instructions to restore parametersI have them backed upAnd if I recall doing it before I had to establish communication manuallyThen I could upload my settingsI am not seeing the soft keys that say read or punch after I change the five or 10 things that define my communications parametersI’ve done this on a Fanuc 0 controlNever the 18 THi there. I'm a newcomer to cnc machines, and I'm trying to learn a Proxxon pd400 cnc lathe with nccad8 software. I also have available an EMCO concept mill 105 with Siemens software, ,but can't get it functioning. I can make a new post for that later.I've messed around with the proxxon a little, but I have problems zeroing correctly. Every time I put in a workpiece, I use a piece of paper between the workpiece and the tool to set Z-axis zero, but the X-axis is hard to get. I've found out that I can measure the X-axis with a caliper, move the tool to scratch said axis after zeroing with my eyes, and then adjusting the difference in the software. But this feels unnecessarily hard, and doesn't always come out correct. I'm usually a couple of 10's of a millimeter off.Anyone here familiar with said machine, and willing to share some tips? Especially if you know how to save tool specifications, that would help alot.I guess G54 is set automatically when telling the program how big the workpiece is? But I'm not really sure about anything. Any help would be much appreciated. I can't find anything on YouTube or any manuals online.Sorry if the post is a little chaotic.I just won this milling machine on an online auction in Sweden and brought it home.It needs a fair amount of restoration and an owners manual would sure be great to have. Unfortunately, the previous owner had lost the manual, and the brand and model of the machine is unknown. The only clues I have are:The main sign on the mill says "Brännehylte, High Chaparall", which is just the name of an old company in High Chaparall, Sweden. The phone number has changed owners and now goes to the customer service of an amusement park :/The motor is made by Siemens in Germany.The power feed motors are made by "Servo products company" out of California, USA. Two out the three power feed motors look like factory installs, but I'm not sure about that either.I already spent 4 hours googling around different manufacturers of milling machines (new and old) but to no avail. My only hope now is to turn to the internet and ask for help!I'm a manual machinist, and would like to at least know what programs I might be looking at and how the interfaces work, should I ever going into CNC. It's my understanding that CAM programs are essentially what gives the machine directions, and that CAD programs are cousins to 3D modeling.Anyone have experience with a Haas VF-6? I’ve been pushing for a VMC and they are finally seriously looking at one. My first choice for a cheaper starter machine is a Trak VMCsi 14 due to the Siemens control. Instead it looks like we might end up with a 2007 VF-6 for about half the cost.I get saving money but isn’t the life cycle on these things like 10 years? We cut mostly different steels.Options are 10k spindle, 30hp direct drive spindle. The work envelope and specs sounds great just not sure if we will be able to cut steel well. Most of our tolerances are .002”Hello machinistsIf I'm designing a part with a fit like Ø20 M6 (-0,004/-0,017) and I'm appending a .STEP file, would you prefer if the diameter of the 3D model is 20,0mm or that it is 19,9895?Best regards and thanks in advance from an engineer who wants to not make bad drawings.Update: Based on the most upvoted comments, I'll keep my CAD model at nominal even for asymmetric tolerances. It makes most sense for me too since I always doubt accuracy, import quality and system of units when I open someone elses file and the dimensions aren't round numbers.There's a never used 2020 model GLS2800M with Y axis (Siemens 828D ShopTurn control) that's come up locally for a pretty good price and looking for some user opinions before I pitch it to the boss.We're nearly exclusively a Mori/Fanuc shop (at least on the lathe side) if that mattersI know this isn't the usual type of post, but does anyone know how to program different diameter offsets for a single tool on a mazak? It's a Mazak Nexus machine.I need to run two different features with the same tool and they need different levels of comp to be in tolerance.I see the tool offset page with 120 something different offsets, but how do I call those up in the program?I tried calling it T0101 and putting the comp I wanted for that operation in offset 01, but it alarmed when it got there.Any help is appreciated.We are looking for a top-flight CNC machinist who takes pride in their work. We are a 97 year old family-owned business located just outside of Charlotte, NC. We specialize in repair and new manufacture of fluid film babbitt bearings. The CNC machine we need the most help with is an Okuma VTR-160a (with Fanuc controls). We are planning for the next generation of employees as a number of our employees have been with us for more than 25 years and would like to retire at some point.We offer many benefits that include fully-paid employee health insurance, 401K with matching, education reimbursements, and more. And since we are a job shop there is rarely more than a two or three off job so there is always something new and different to work on.Here are some pics of the company and the products we make: http://imgur.com/a/b0GTDCompany website: https://www.pioneer1.com/Send me a message if you are interested and I'll send you the official job description.Edit: I forgot to mention that our quality and service earned us the Siemens Small Business Supplier of the Year Award. http://i.imgur.com/JLEDjBv.jpgEdit 2: The wage is dependent on skill level. Our range is between $15-25/hour plus great benefits. After an interview and testing we would determine what the wage is.So I'm running a new machine and I've never used a probe, trying to measure a bore but there's another not in the center that I have to watch out for... How can I say go over x-15, go down, measure ID, go up, go to x-15, go down, then measure ID? Thought I'd try asking here, hope it makes sense... Thanks in advanceI’ve been working as a CNC Programmer/Machinist for 4 years or so and have used several builds of Siemens NX the entire time. I’m switching companies soon and into a situation where I will be the only programmer for a company that has already decided on using MasterCAM.I’ve downloaded the MasterCAM HLE version to play with and watched a handful of videos on YouTube and such to try and get familiar with MasterCAM.I’m curious if anyone here has made this same switch between systems or has any advice on how I might be able to pickup MasterCAM quicker? Thanks!Hi. I've lurking this sub and now is my time to look for some help.I'm new to the machining world. My company bough a cnc to make some rectangular flanges that we use with the wheels we produce.The process is simple, we cut the flanges with our saw and then the cnc makes all the drills. But i'm having problems with the bigger holes.I have to make a Ø35 mm hole (1,37 inches) into a 15 mm thick (0.6 inches) steel plate (ST 37.2). I use a Ø25 mm (1 inch) indexable insert drill to make a Ø25 hole, and then a Ø10 solid end mill to finish the hole to Ø35.I tried to make a circular interpolation with the whole thickness (15 mm thickness, 2 mm per each radial pass), but the drill broke as soon as it got into the material. So I changed to a helical interpolation from the top. The problem is that the solid end mill only takes 0.148 mm per pass, so I have to take 102 passes to get the operation done. I know that with a circular interpolation the job would be done in a fraction of the time, but I cant get mine to work.Is there an cycle to make a spiral interpolation? Like going from Ø25 to Ø35 on x passes. I'm have been looking on the web, but can't find anything.I'm working with a OPTIMUM F80 with a SIEMENS SINUMERIK 808D.As I said, I'm new to this world, so any little help will be good for me.Thanks in advance!!We usually clean up monday mornings to allow most of the coolant to dry over the weekend.I want to also take this opportunity to show apretiation for this sub. I've completed my first year as a machinist and you guys were great many-a-times helping me keep my anxieties and imposter syndrome at reasonable distances :DHey, my company is hiring and not having a lot of luck. We're understaffed and the extra work is falling on me, so I'm trying anywhere and everywhere to get some interested parties. I don't want to give too many details as my work has a lot of NDAs associated with it, but please DM me if you have interest generally and I can point you to LinkedIn or our hiring manager. Honestly I'm sure you could figure it out on your own from the details I give but I don't want to be the one getting in trouble. Sorry if this isn't allowed.The relevant facts:Location: Torrance, LA, CaliforniaCompany: Large well-funded automotive startup focusing on 3D printed parts and roboticsPay: Depends on the role and experience (and I'm no hiring manager), but as a programmer/prototyper, I make salaried $110k. Honestly we're so strapped for people right now I wouldn't be surprised if you could get more, especially since I know there are many better machinists than myself out there. You can also get in on company shares if you want to take that bet.Qualifications: We're looking for a little bit of everything, but machining is done on a couple of Haas (VM2 and VM6 with a 5 axis trunnion, plus an ST lathe), and we're getting in a 5 axis head zimmerman gantry in a month, the floor has been poured already and the machine is in a warehouse waiting for electrical to be updated in the shop. Programming is Siemens NX, but you don't need to have experience with it beforehand, just experience programming generally and making fixtures. The fixturing is the challenging bit since we essentially modify organically shaped 3D printed aluminum parts. Lots of one-offs but they're working towards ramping up production. We're hoping to find someone who can prototype, going from CAD model to finished product on their own, but we would also be willing to train folks to run the parts and do setups. if they don't have programming knowledge. Looking for a willingness to learn and a willingness to teach. Any help is good help, and there will be multiple hires.I just started at a machine shop, been there for about 6 weeks. I currently work in the rough shop welding balance weights into parts and putting it all together with heat fitting. I've been told I'm doing really well, and supposedly as soon as they can hire someone to replace me, I'll move up to making small simple parts on a CNC lathe as well as running a plasma table. I have a lot of college level math and physics training under my belt and I'm mechanically minded, though I have basically no experience working in a shop.I want to make a career out of this. I've heard of a lot of people getting into the engineering field via a machinist path, and I want to do that if possible. I have a lot of college level math and physics training under my belt, but life got in the way and I don't have my bachelors degree. I'm currently making about $5 more an hour than what the cost of living is here, for whatever that's worth.So with all that said, I want to ask you guys some specific questions, and I welcome any advice you may have to give about this kind of work.What kind of raise should I be asking for when I'm moved up? There was a vague mention of making something like 11% more once I move up out of my current role.How do I make the most money possible out of this kind of work? What's the advancement path look like?What can I do to make them spend more time showing me how to use the machines or to learn more about how the shop works?What kind of studying can I do and/or what skills can I practice to make sure I'm at least familiar with the basics? No shop experience means I'm constantly having to ask embarrassingly basic questions.Hey everyone, like the title says I just landed this dream job with some crazy cool machines and while I have been in this industry for 8 years and even do it as a hobby, I have never encountered something like this Rapido and the shop has/buying several.The owner knows I only have experience programming up to 4th axis but he liked my attitude and wants to give me a job :) so this is definitely a good problem to be having.I'm already watching videos on Siemens NX as that's his CAD/CAM and trying to find more info about these Eurotechs but there isn't a whole lot besides the specs and demo videos. If anyone has any info on them I'd greatly appreciate it, thanks!Looking at getting a DMU 50 3rd gen here pretty quick(first 5AX). Just wanted to get some fresh opinions of DMG and the DMU 50.The DMU 50 is pretty thrifty(as DMG goes), is the extra worth it for EVO/Monoblock? Rigidity and positioning are more important to me than the EVO's speed.Yea yea, I get that these posts just draw some anecdotal bs, but I want to hear what you think. ?Should I be looking at DMG? I really like their availability of machines/service/parts.NegativesHermle - Lead TimeMatsuura - Don't offer HSK in this machine size (20" platter roughly) (deal breaker - HSK machines already)Grob - Waiting on pricing, but I assume its too muchOkuma - their sales guy talked a lot about non-simultaneous machinesMazak - No clue didn't really look into themDoosan - No response from initial chatHaas - Bad 5 AX wrap I don't want to have to probe everythingAlso leaning towards Hadenhain due to stock, any current ideas there? I know this question is already posted everywhere.Don't need turning, just a mill job shop looking to break into 5AX. The DMU 50 does what I need it to right now on paper, but am I going to wish I sprung for the Monoblock in rigidity and accuracy?So through my work I have access to CATIA V5, 3dExperience, NX, and Mastercam.I work in manufacturing software (hence why I have access to licenses) but wanted to firm up some of my knowledge by learning how to run a CAM package but did not know which one to focus on.I have access to the software but limited access to classes and would be doing it on my own through walking through tutorials or examples. I do have access to the whole siemens Learning Advantage course set.I have done manual machining and some limited 3 axis mastercam 10+ years ago.I have been programming for a while and am looking to break into higher end work. I have spent time in the autodesk packages and mastercam. I see a lot of higher level areospace companies using tebis, CATIA and NX. Is there any resources for learning these online? What is the learning curve like on these softwares?Just finished up these aerospace parts on our DMU 75. Started at 150 lbs and ends under 5 lbs with .070" wall. Learned a way to use grease to stick the part to the fixture to prevent vibration.Fair warning this is not my realm of expertise at all. But we are looking at getting a mill to get us into some more work that is just slightly out of our reach.We do a lot of 1 of work in a rather tight schedule. A lot of oil related work but a healthy mix of completely random work as well. Everything ranging from 1018 steel to stainless to high-temp super alloys. Just about everything we run manually is large machines taking heavy duty cuts pumping it out as fast as we can, and I would expect to have a CNC mill to be able to do the same.We have a Nicolas Correa horizontal mill and it's a beast, I know they make good machines and seeing some of their new stuff is quite impressive looking to say the least, my pick would have been their Norma series machines.I've heard, perhaps wrongly, that Haas is cheap and "good enough" but that they can be maintenance queens and aren't exactly what I would call rigid enough for what we do.Any other recommendations?Hey everyone hoping this is the right subreddit to ask this in but I’m a 20 year old dude I’m going to be moving to Florida in September I have no cnc experience but am very interested in cnc programming I was just wondering what is the best way to get into a entry level cnc programming job should I take a course before I move so I have some knowledge? Any answers would help thank you in advance!Im running my Emcoturn 340TC with a Siemens 810T controller and for some reason the entire machine runs like it’s supposed to but the actual spindle speed on the controller stays at 0 even though the spindle is turning at the right speed. I unplugged the spindle encoder and got a closed loop alarm on the controller so it appears it’s detecting the encoder.Am I missing something or is this normal for a busted spindle encoder?Hello all, my shop just got a new doosan dnm 5700. I'm still learning the controls and I just wanted to ask everyone here if they like these machines. Pros/cons? This is our first doosan in the shop. We mainly have newer mazaks and older okumas.Hi I was looking at moving away from the uk to America/ Canada and wanted a few questions answered. I’ve been a cnc machinist for 5 yrs having left school at 16. I completed a apprenticeship at 19 and have worked mainly in aerospace as well as sub contract work. I can program hurco cnc mills and am currently learning how to program and operate using fanuc and hidenhain. I was wondering what the pay for someone with my experience would be, whether health care would be paid for by the company, what the best areas are for job prospects and how much the cost of living is in those areas. Any extra info would be appreciated whilst I decide if moving is something I want to do. The main reason for me wanting to move is the terrible pay In my area and ridiculous house prices.I'm a mechanical engineer and I'm thinking about getting into machining. I have a little experience from school and a little experience on the job. I really enjoy it: both the programming and manual aspects. I'm wondering what the best route forward is for me.Where I'm located (BC, Canada) training to be a full machinist is an apprenticeship program and must be done with an employer sponsor. But there are also some programs that can get you partial credit towards being a machinist without a company sponsor. My contract with my current employer is about to end and they are not interested in putting me through the apprenticeship program. So it seems like I have two choices. Either 1) search for an employer that would be willing to sponsor me or 2) take a cnc technician co-op program and go from there.I would really appreciate any input you guys might have.My company has a blank check and a desire for a CNC mill and lathe. We have some know-how on both brands as far as use goes, but what are the pros and cons between the two? Thanks in advanceDMU50 HELP! My table orientation got screwed up. Basically when I use my probe to touch off in the Z it begins to travel in the Y, if I touch off in the Y it moves in the Z. How to I orientate it. Sorry I’m new to this machines.I've never worked on a Haas machine before, Okuma, Nakamura, Matsuura, etc are what I've had experience with. I see fairly often people making poor comments about Haas whether it be the machines or service related issues.Out of curiosity I wanted to ask for anecdotes to see what the real consensus was on the brand. I'd hope to start a shop some day and I only know what I've been fortunate enough to work with.http://imgur.com/a/6utfOmarker is an 06' FEP Questmilling is custom ultralight milling to reduce weightall work done by meI've been working on a project here recently to revamp some old and outdated programs, for our VTLs, that use hard-coded data currently, and I think I'm going to go down the path of using custom macros. This particular set of operations has a lot of variation, and I think that giving them the ability to do some user input part-to-part could be beneficial. That said, I know that documentation is key when using sub-programs and macros especially. Does anyone have any examples they could share of how they keep track of this data?For reference, I am starting this project for a Fanuc 31i-B controller and would eventually like to do something similar for a Siemens 840D controller.I’m fairly well versed in various fanuc and haas controls programming and operating. I’d like to do some homework on the various other controllers I have zero experience with(okuma, fagor, mazak Siemens etc.). That way if I find a new job and all they have are machines I have no experience with I’m better prepared. I’d also like to do homework on machine types I have no experience with. I have 8 years of experience with standard 3axis mills and 2axis lathes so I’d like to learn how to program different types of multi axis machinery. And possibly brush up on conversational programming as I have only G code experience.So yeah I’m looking for good resources on these subjects so I can prepare for more complex machinery that I may encounter in the near future. Any help is greatly appreciated.ArtiMinds Robotics and Siemens have been cooperating for years. Due to the increasing commitment of Siemens towards #robotics (United Robotics Group), the now presented software prototype may be seen in a different light. It also involves PLCs (Beckhoff Automation) and the handling of cables (Micropsi Industries).https://mrk-blog.de/en/siemens-und-artiminds-entwickeln-prototypische-schnittstelle-fuer-advanced-robotics-anwendungen/Hi,I found that Galil controllers such as 41x0 have a comprehensive set of instructions and commands that one can program to achieve smooth acceleration of motors and many other motion capabilities for stepper motors and servos.I am wondering if there are others that are very popular and generic/standard for motion?For example there are many CPUs with different instruction sets, some are very popular (i.e. x86, ARM) and among those one can find equivalent instructions for a given operation (e.g. adding two numbers). I am looking for something similar but for motion, in particular for driving of stepper motors and servos.Ideally the controller will be capable - I don't need to program down to the stepper motor's steps, but higher level instructions. Are there popular controllers out there used in industrial settings, and standard instructions?I am looking to emit instruction chunks dynamically based on the current state of the robot.Thanks,BahadirAre there any PLC-based generic robot controllers and end-to-end software suite that can be used to control a custom articulated robot (i.e. robot arm with 6 or more axes)?I'm aware of ROS open source software. But there is a steep learning curve that I'm still on.I'm looking for an off-the-shelf PLC solution that has all the functions and control algorithms already developed for applying to any user-defined 6 or 7 axis robot arm that uses standard servomotors and drives.Typically, industrial robot companies like Kuka have their own hardware and software integrated. I want to integrate an off-the-shelf controller and software with my hardware i.e. robot arm.So, basically, I'm looking for a ROS type system but more developed and more "plug and play".I currently run a perfume company. I’m in between buying a machine or hiring an engineer to build it in-house. If we build it, I feel we can create it perfectly for our needs. But if I buy a machine it will not be as tailored to our needs. Why would one build a pneumatic machine in-house vs purchasing one? And what is the learning curve? I’m thinking of hiring a manufacturing or mechanical engineer full time. I myself have already purchased some semi-automatic pneumatic filling, labeling and crimping machines and I always end up rebuilding them myself to more efficient.I just discovered Festo because one of the pneumatic machines we own has a Festo component and so I did a quick search online with all the capabilities of Festo. It looks like we can use all Festo components to build the entire machine.So my thought is if we build it in-house then we can make something that is overall more efficient for our workflow needs and thus involving less “steps” in the overall manufacturing process. Would love to get your expert thoughts.I was looking to learn a cad software for an upcoming robotics competition but I dont have much prior experience with either so i need a software that is easy to learn and use for basic robotics. Which one would you all recommend?Hi all, it seems like a lot of robot arms nowadays continue to have all the electronics installed behind each motor of each joint. One of those electronic components seems to be the rotary encoder. But if most of the joints have some sort of gearbox, then the encoder would not provide positional information of the actual joint if it is reading the motor's angle of rotation, rather than the gearbox output.So is there a also an encoder being put on the output/load side of the gearbox? Or is there some kind of homing sequence being applied by these robots prior to operation?As a recent robotics masters graduate I have been looking around for a full time jobs(USA, California). I noticed the skills required for full-time roles vs the college skills I earned are far.Example:-Python in college, mostly c++ in industry2.Matlab for robot arm programming in college, PLC programming in industry.3. None in college, classical methods in SLAM roles in industry.4.None in college, learning methods for perception in industry.Don't know where I can learn practical skills of robotics like PLC programming for robot arms, learning methods for perception.How to fill this void and what fields in Robotics jobs do you think are recession proof.?Ok so imagine you own a garment production factory right, and you want to keep track of how many clothing pieces are made at an hourly rate but while also having the convenient option of opening up an app and seeing at what quantity we are (this part could be done in excel to be fair). but remember its not a conveyer belt its a garment production line. How would I go about it and in a way that I can limit dishonesty, like someone just waving their hand over a sensor or something to log a piece being done, its small gap between possible profit/loss so I need it to be as accurate as possibleSo me and two friends are engineering students trying to get this old robot arm up and running as vacation work. It was decommissioned from a factory and donated to the university. We have been working on it for two weeks now, cleaning the control box, replacing some power supplies, etc. We just came to a point now where we actually plugged the arm in, but the pendant gets stuck on a loading screen reading "connecting to robot controller". There are also some cables hanging from the side which we don't know the purpose of. Everything inside the box seems to power on, but the computer in the top section does not give any output to the VGA port. If there is anyone who perhaps knows these robots or have worked with them before, any advice as to where to go from here would be greatly appreciated.https://news.accelerationrobotics.com/hardware-acceleration-in-robotics-89/Hardware acceleration in robotics news. Acceleration robotics launches ROBOTCORE ROS 2 hardware, Robotics investment for October 2023 totals $980 million, Robotics funding saw another dip in 2023, Siemens and Intel to collaborate on advanced semiconductor manufacturingWas wondering what software/hardware/platforms are used in the industry (not the academia) to develop robots and robotic algorithms?I am currently working as a robotics engineer for two years at a company that I've started fresh out of uni. We mainly use plc (codesys) in developing our robot. It feels like the tech is outdated for robotics development. Wanted to get a feel for what's out there...Hello everyone,Trying to program a UR5 here with a plc siemens controller. The robot will be put in a system. It has its own operation but when it receives a signal (bool type) from the system it has to stop. After that I will have a button that will start it again from the position it stopped. Is that even possible?I have been looking for a solution using the URscript Reference https://s3-eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/ur-support-site/46196/scriptManual.pdf and the best I could come up was to halt the program when the signal comes. But that won't allow me to start it again.Thanks you for the attentionWhat are the skills that are key to robotics––but not necessarily to other STEM disciplines––that every robotics engineer should be strong in? I'm hoping for answers more specific than "hardware and software engineering." An answer like "control systems" is more specific, but it still feels academic and not like a good starting point for self study, so elaboration is thus requested. Asked another way, what skills should an aspiring roboticist demonstrate in their portfolio pieces if they wish to optimize their competitive edge?A new large robotics group is forming in Germany: Yesterday, the United Robotics Group invited to the Ruhr area. Equipped with funds from the RAG Foundation and also with the help of Siemens know-how, robots are being developed for almost all sectors: Industry, service, social and more.(The article of the largest German-language robotics blog is linked ain its English version).https://mrk-blog.de/en/united-robotics-group-neue-integrierte-robotik-gruppe-1-2/Recently finished my mechanical engineering degree and will be accepting an automation engineer position that works on designing industrial machinery and programming controls through PLC. The field that I ultimately want to get into is more consumer/practical robotics, but I'm hoping that this position will still give some useful experience. Are there any things I could do outside of work to better my chances/improve the resume? I have a little C experience with a PIC microcontroller from college but that's about it. Are there any other good online resources? (Is this even a good field to start my career in?) I'm open to both the hardware and software side.I will need to work with a RG2 onRobot gripper for my Kuka robot. The Kuka robot will be programmed via mxAutomation by a Siemens PLC. My question is, will the gripper be controlled inside TIA portal? I couldn’t find any documentation on this.I looked through the user manual for Kuka. I found a web client configuration video on YT but no application example on their website.Hello everyone, recently I've taken an interest in the new atlas from Boston Dynamics, I'm curious if anyone knows of any similar CAD program that they might utilize for the design process. I'm currently utilizing Shapr3d although I'm looking to move towards SolidWorks or Fusion360 or any similar program that might get similar results.I really appreciate any help you can provide :)Hello everyone, I'm currently working on a delta robot and my tas is to generate the trajectory for pick and placement of products from a conveyor, I'm using ros communicating with siemens wich driving three siemens servo motors to move the arms. so my actual problem is what to do for generating the trajectory.Please any hints that could help me.Best regardsI am currently a senior at Georgia Tech in Industrial and Systems Engineering. I will be pursuing a career in robotics (primarily in industrial robotics) upon graduation (currently planned on 2018). I have worked at KUKA Robotics at both Mercedes and Tesla over the summer (internship).My current degree program has NOTHING to do with robotics WHATSOEVER. I have received 5+ job offers from several companies with yearly pay ranging from $70,000-$100,000, and I have had to turn them all down because I am in school. Do you think it is worth continuing with this degree program or pursuing specialized trainings in industrial robotics like FANUC, KUKA, Siemens PLCs, etc. and taking one of these jobs?Would not having a degree keep you from rising into management?This was a project I did for one of my college classes. It's supposed to be a high functionality prototype, which I think turned out excellently.TLDR, I have a motor controller meant for a specific motor that uses 3 phase BLDC with resolver sensor. I'm working on the software for it. The motor I normally use is very expensive and other people are testing on it. I just need something that will spin closed loop to verify software updates and improvements as I finish the software.I don't know where to get one cheaply. Googling reveals countless motors, but virtually none of them have integrated resolvers. There are $80 resolver sensors on ebay but not obvious way to mount them to a motor. And I found that in order for the current draw to be non negligible, the shaft needs a weight or brake.Anyone have any ideas? Used is fine.Hi there,I am currently a third year student at a Canadian University in Mechanical Engineering and I am looking for some help finding a path towards a career in automation. I have had two co-op terms where I have done mostly programming work (which I like and have been doing for a long time now) and I have realized the need for engineers with an automation/robotics background. I also love looking at processes and picking them apart to see what could be automated and made more efficient.I have a high average and could probably get into a good grad school for a related program, but I am kind-of lost with the vastness of options and could use some help from someone who is in the field themselves.Here are some specific questions I have:Is there any good resources I should know about to get a better idea of what I need to break into this field?There are several different programs I seem to be interested in when looking through grad schools (controls, mechatronics, automation[European schools], artificial intelligence, machine learning) and I dont know where to start to weed them out.I don't really want to do research, is it valuable to do an MENG?Are there any schools that I should be looking at in particular (preferably Canadian, but I could also see doing it abroad)?Would it be better to just go and apply to automation firms to learn? Do these firms hire mechanical engineers for overall design work or would I be stuck just doing stress calculations and such?Is there any one place you would recommend looking when starting in this broad field?I am aware of 3 methods of PLC - industrial Robot communication.The simplest way, send signal to robot via IO and program the robot in its native language. The robot can start/stop or do some tasks based on the IO statusHave Profinet/Modbus Communication between plc and robot (I’m not familiar with other protocols but I’m sure it’s doable as long there is option package and communication interface)Use ROS What more should I add to this list? Also, if anyone has resources on this matter could u share, much appreciatedI am seeking advice to get a job in my future field and im currently majoring in robotics and embedded systems. I have learned a decent amount to design, create, program etc. i wouldnt consider myself a roboticist tho… yet. i want to get out of my current job and work in my desired field asap. i want to avoid the internship route since the pay is typically low where i am at and i would have to relocate to make a decent living. im also leaning towards working for a company that’ll pay for the rest of my schooling as well. im in a bit of a pickle and ik theres some smarts dudes in here, just wanna pick yalls brain! Thanks in advance brethren’s 🫡I am considering choosing CE but I am interested in robotics. Some people said it can get me into robotics and others said no. What do you guys think?So, I feel live Linux is more preferred for robotics over Windows? Can anyone explain why? It’s just an OS, right? So, anything that Linux can do, Windows should also be able to do, right?I was lucky enough to meet some of the dudes that maintained the open source SimpleFOC Arduino library at the beginning of the summer at Open Sauce.I am using an ESP 32 based driver board that reads the serial stream from an RC receiver (also something new to me).I am pretty pleased with how responsive it is.Just finish my first automated cell with a Fanuc robot. Been working with Fanuc robots for a little more than three years. I am currently a Service Engineer. Ask me anything about the industry, anything!!!Hey guys, I'm an undergrad student looking to pursue a master's degree in the US as an international student. My prior research revolves around the field of soft robotics and I would like to know which universities have the best labs/professors who research this field.Also if anyone has an idea on what kind of job prospects the field of soft robotics has it would be great if you could share your 2 cents.When I started my studies 3 years ago, I won't lie I did not have any idea what robotics is all about, in my head I though I will be maintaining robots or smth maybe programing them.My studies are called "mechatronics and robotics" in a rather poor university in Vilnius Lithuania and in that university it took me around 2 years to even understand what the course is about. Sure I knew the theory that robotics is a really wide subject and all but only now, 3 years of studying later and after 2 months internship do I truly understand what it's about.The amount of things I need to know to work on even a simple industrial sistem is truly dauntingAnd even after all of that I have never been more excited about my future in this profesion, solving problems that I have not encountered yet each day and learning pretty much everything from scratch somehow makes me feel hopefull about the futureI learned some of my strengths and some of my weaknesses - it appears I catch on quick at programing robots, PLC logic and such while I don't have a good understanding of electrical enginering, I learned the importance of German language as most of the big engineering giants in Europe are German (at least the ones we work with in my internship)I am just feeling good and wanted to share my feelings with the worldThe engineering community has only brought me joy in the past yearsHey r/robotics, I was wondering what college major you guys think would be conducive to pursue a career in robotics. I start college in the fall at Georgia Tech. I had asked them this question and each time I received a different answer from each person I ask, but they always say one of three: mechanical, electrical, or computer engineering.A little background: I was initially was set on mechanical, because I was more focused on the design and building. My only real experience with robotics and robotics kits have been through engineering camps, and some 3-5 day robotics camp/courses. Before you guys shun me and say I need to find something else to do with my time, I've pretty much been dead set on this since 8th grade.Hi there I am a mechatronics graduate. Mostly what I do is train youngsters in Mechanical/manufacturing techniques. I get time to work on robots. Have had little experience of operating/learning on a 6 dof.Sorry if my question sounds dumb.Can we comtrol robots with PLCs? Like plcs have very readily motor controlling modules and very less mess with connecting/current. Like have some tried it? Is there any possibility?I'm wondering if there is any utility to changing a stepper motor's microstepping setting during a movement. I need some good resolution at the end of a movement, but the travel isn't as crucial and torque is minimal. Could I use a coarse setting for the beginning of the movement, then switch to finer resolution while approaching the endpoint?could be something like:The closed loop controller depends on shaft angle, but a lower level controller decides by:if (speed < threshold){setfineustep();speedgain = FINEUSTEPGAIN;}Application:I've built a closed-loop pneumatic pressure controller from a stepper motor with a peristaltic attachment this using a DRV8825 with an stm32 uC. I want a faster response time to what I currently have, but am limited by the max step frequency of the DRV8825.I'd imagine switching these settings might not be practical if it has to be done with a serial interface, but if it is a GPIO flip, then it may be plausible?I'm used to programming in C# and C++, I want to use the C equivalent of % but my IDE won't recognize it. Does there exist and equivalent or a way to use something in it's place?Thanks!I stumbled upon a used robot Staubly RX130 CS7 with Puma 6 axis, I stumbled about some similar post here: config_c VERLUST auf ADEPT CS7BBasically it was complaining that it cannot calibrate the 4th axisMine arrived to us with a 12.3 operating system, and according to some opinions this originally came from factory with 11.2 or something like that.Unfortunately while trying things I overwrote the system files and put 11.2 somehow.Apparently the robot would have the spec files and some mrk at the root. they seem to be missing,I have to mention the nvram arrived completely dead, so we had to hack the battery and only after we were able to do load spec and we got somewhere.I was wondering if anyone can help me get the files for mine?S130_STD.SPC . D 241 566 03 A . VMI-IMAS . 05/06/98 . V+12.3 V S2 . this is what was showing under v12.Hey guys and gals, Im 17 and study mechanical and electrical engineering in school. I have a solid python and CAD background from my recent internships, aswell as some money, (I would like to stay under 250 Euros though) but i have to confess that this is indeed my first robotics project. I got inspired by James Bruton's Open Dog to try and build a quadropod myself. I own a 3D printer, aswell as most hobby electronics tools (soldering iron, wire, multimeter and the like)What kinds of servos would you recomend me for a less than 1kg quadropedal robot platform with 12 DOF, and a carrying capacity of maybe 250g? What kind of torques would you think are required as I don't know the dynamic loads yet?I want to have a distance sensor in each foot aswell as an IMU to know how the robot is oriented. I would use my Raspberry Pi as the controller and would like to rely on adafruit sensors because they offer such great documentation and python libraries, which I've already workes with, but as long as I could get them to work with python the manufacturer is irrelevant.I said plattform as I want to keep the robot and maybe add new hardware to it, such as infrared, sonar, maybe even a lidar some day.My math and physics is pretty solid I guess so I shouldn't have that big of a problem with the kinematic model and the gyroscope and accelerometer.The 9DOF IMU is like 20 Euros (NXP-9), The four distance sensors(vcnl 4010) are 30 Euros, a Servo Hat for the pi is about 20 Euros. Are these good options? Can I get similar capabilites somewhere else for cheaper, as I want to spend most of my money on better motors?I have about 1-2h a day to work on this project as I'm still a student. I'd be endlessly grateful for any documentation / tutorials / blogs and articles which could help me in this project.Heya,So I'm working on a 4 wheel robot and I was planning using magnetic encoders that are on the wheels to track its speed/position.I am really struggling to get an accurate reading from the encoders. I'm using this library https://www.pjrc.com/teensy/td_libs_Encoder.htmlAnd it mentions that you need interrupt pins for the encoders to work well. On my arduino uno there are only 2 pins, so I would need 6 more for optimum results. The library also mentions that serial stuff can mess up the encoders. I need to use serial to talk to the raspberry pi, so this is a huge problem for me.At this point I'm about to give up on the encoders all together and just buy an IMU, so I can do the fancy kinematics stuff easier. Does anyone have experience getting good results out of encoders? Are they just crap?Just wanted to share a homemade robot I've designed. It has a 300mm round base. I've 3D-printed it using a Voron 2.4r2 and a Prusa MK2S printers. It uses Arduino ESP32 as electronics. Once finished, this robot will map rooms, navigate autonomously, have a character and skills like playing ball, hide-and-seek, chase, patrolling the house, etc. All files are open source. You are most welcome to check it out.TL;DR : TitleHey! As the title suggests I am mechanical engineer. I want to make a career in robotics and programming of robots. Although I don't have enough funds to pursue any masters in the same field yet I am looking for a short term courses which can help me make the necessary transformation from a mechanical engineer. I have only basic level ( Or you can assume 0 level) knowledge of 'C/C++'. I have done basic operations on a robotic arm such as jogging and pick & place operations by KRL ( Kooka Robotc Language). I am planning to use my robotics knowledge eventually in Mechatronics and automation.So I would like your suggestions in what should I do. My country of education is India if that matters.Kosti-1 Robot ArmSchematicKosti-1 is a 5 DOF open-source robotic arm with a maximum payload of 500gm, a reach of approximately 55cm and a total part cost of around $700; the arm lies in the mid-range between small servo arms and multi thousand dollar projects and is generally aimed towards educational and hobby purposes, but you might be able to come up with some practical ones (e.g., pick and place tasks, remotely turning on your coffee machine).0:00 / 0:00ZeroSim is a robotics simulation toolkit that leverages the rapid development of the Unity real-time 3D platform and extensive integration and compatibility with the Robotics Operating System (ROS). ZeroSim is designed for ease of use and extremely rapid development of robots and environments. From robotic arms to ground and drone based mobile robots. From interior environments such as warehouse & industrial to exterior environments such agriculture & urban.We are releasing ZeroSim as open source to support the community of roboticist and software engineers that have supported us over the decades. We are in active development and welcome all feature requests, bug reports, and pull requests.https://github.com/fsstudio-team/ZeroSimROSUnityI've already had to reprint this part solid and I want to make sure it doesn't break again. This is also the first time I'm doing a project like this so sorry if this question is kinda dumb.