It has some differences, but the vast majority is the same. Like tool calls/tool length comp/rotating etc will look different, mine also takes only mpf files but the learning curve is small. Operating it will be different, not programming as much.Plus, programming will be the same, the post for mastercam will do all the work for you. They should know that too, so I’m guessing they want more than just a programmer.Yeah, cause if it was just a programmer position then control wouldn't make a big difference.What does the tool calls look likeM06 T10G43 H10G41 D10Different from this I take it??Thanks for the help, I appreciate it. It would be like a 10 dollar an hour raise if I got the job!The syntax will differ between each machine tool manufacturer and potentially can differ between 840D PL and 840D SL.I work for an OEM and my tool change call is TCH_G(xx), cutter geometry and cutter comp is called by a custom variable, unique to my machine tool brand.Your question is contingent to how the OEM manages this.Post 'should' do most of the work for you, but I'm finding my postability post and mastercam to an extent to be mostly garbage. Actually mastercam has always been garbage...Anyways my configuration has trouble with posting cycles. Especially Cycle832(). Don't get me started on mixing mill and lathe portions without the mill-turn package...Siemens has documentation freely and readily available if you look for it.IMHO, I'd just pick the siemens controller. It is more widely used and has more resources online for it. Physical interface should not be much of a thought because it is all down to muscle memory after a few weeks.Having one controller be the odd one out makes that entire machine the one no one wants to run because the controller is "hard". I've seen it at a few shops where one guy ends up running it because he is the only one who knows the controller.Thank you :)Both controls are good.The Syntec is lesser know in N. America than in China. (In China its the 2nd most popular control, behind Fanuc)With the Siemens control, you will be paying a premium for everything. Not sure there is an advantage for the price.The Part Probe with the Syil is Pioneer?, if you want a Renishaw, you will have to buy and install that separately. That was my choice on my Syil.In the end, the "Control" is just an interface. Unless you are "Long Hand" programming at the control, the impact is not much.IMO get the Syntec spend the saving on the good Holders and Fixtures.Yes I was going to purchase a renishaw, that’s what I’ve been using on all our machines here and I like them a lot, unless you think it’s probably better to just get the pioneer?Have you got a deadman’s switch that is wired in. My 840d has a switch on the back that may need to be enabled to select the x1, x10, x100 after pressing jog on the panel.No help here. Just wanted to say I hate there software. Same here , There always some alarms...One of your remote pedestals or screens needs to be reset, or reconnectedI rechecked manytimes everything is connectedI've had similar issues when the cables loosen up. You might need to open up the panel and check all connections. Otherwise the board might be fried in which case a refurbished unit is probably your most viable option. Siemens rebuilds these components.My first thought is to check the connections. make sure the machine is off before you go wiggling them, though. Unplug them and plug them back in, while you are back there see if there is a model number on the screen and Google the model number for a manual. Try to see if there is a way to recalibrate the screen because it could also be out of Calibration or something (caused by a loose cable).Lastly, if there is a keyboard or something hooked up, make sure none of the buttons are stuck down, preventing the computer from actually activating the buttons on the screen. You can do this while the machine is off and just press/wiggle all of the buttons and switches and then boot it back up.Exactly. Fanuc only has two things going for it: widespread familiarity and dead reliability. Other than that they are have stayed in the 70s while other brands have surpassed them as technology evolves. For many shops, that is ok. For our shop, fanuc controls are weighing us down.Another vote for Heidenhain. We have a shop full of them. Could never go back to FANUC!Heiden fan boy here.Heidenhain IMHO the best control made. They are actually the old Phillips control. Heidenhain bought Phillips in the 90's if my memory serves me. Siemens is my least favorite control.Heidenhain but I’ve only ran heidenhain, on a mill with universal head so the rotational ability of it makes things so simple. Siemens on a 3+c lathe and it’s certainly got its quirks. Might just be how it’s setup but I find the Siemens rather limited from a conversational standpoint with the milling. The heidenhain is easy to make it do whatever the fuck you want but the Siemens is still newish so still a lot of learning to doI've only ever used Heidenhain and love it! Easy and quick to program.We have a Siemens in a shop full of fanuc, it’s weird… Only one guy knows how to run it and it took a few months to figure out.I hate all things fanuc with a fiery passion. I use heidenhain TNC640 and i absolutely love it to death. We had another machine with a Siemens 840 that i fooled around with and it didn't really tickle my fancy, but i do believe it is a solid choice. I would choose heidenhain over all the rest.Fanuc.For me, the heidenhien control isn't worth it. On a 4 axis capable Doosan it's a 20k option, and the service is significantly more expensive.If a Fanuc machine doesn't come up in the morning, I know it's not going to cost more than 5k to get it fixed.Fanuc service is expensive, but next level. You call them up, tell them you want the full beans. The next day, a pallet turns up with every component in your machine. The day after, a tech turns up, and unless it's a motor or a MTB part, your machine WILL be running.And it'll be that way for the next 15 years. If you can tell me that's true of siemens or heidenhein, I'll eat my hat.definitely Heidenhain, i have programmed on a lot of different control systems ( fanuc , mazatrol, Haas, Heidenhain and Hurcos programming system ) and can honestly say that without any doubt that Heidenhain is by far the best and easiest to use . if i was starting my own shop all vmcs would have Heidenhain.I only use heidenhain so the answer is easy for meI cant help youFanucAvoid Siemens. We have several Siemens controls. Not a fan 👎🏿I run Siemens and Fanuc. Of the two I prefer Fanuc. Ive run the Siemens on and off for probably 10 years and I just don’t find it as good. Saying that it probably worth saying that the Fanuc is my daily.Have experience on all three but the most with fanuc but I do like their controls more alsoWe have all three and the Heidenhain is the best controller hands down. Siemens second, Fanuc third. The Fanuc control is slow, antiquated, and has non-existent memory compared to the other two.A Fadal is just a jazzed up fanucI’ve run a lot of Siemens lathes (Hyundai) Hands down my favorite Big learning curve but worth it. Grooving cycles the best there is. Now non existant- obsoleteI dont like fanuc. Haas is betterI'll have any of them. Boss is obcessed with Mazatrol, but we do not use any conversational, so I don't see the point.Giddings and Lewis.Syil offers 828d control as an optionTrak machines offer Sinumerik oneDMG Mori, Burchard & Weber, Starrac Heckert are the ones I know off the bat. Probably a lot more of them.The romi c620 I ran had a 828 sinumerik controller on it.Looks like their machining centers are fanuc but the lathes without tool changes are SinumerikWaldrich CoburgGreat call on running with the Siemens controls. The best, in my opinion, although some other options come close.Like has already been mentioned, lots of machine tool builders offer Siemens, but what kind of machine are you looking for?Generally more common with European machine tool builders, unsurprisingly. DMG is a fairly big name with lots of offerings, already mentioned.If you're looking at the low budget end of what's available, check out Fryer.I’ve been happy with the Siemens controls, pretty easy to use and I prefer to own equipment with the least amount of proprietary parts.I basically have a garage shop so something like a DMG Mori won’t be in my future for a long time. I would mainly be looking on the lower end of small production level machines.Fryer has 828dI would buy it with the Siemens, since that is the most popular controller on those machines. Our DMU50 3rd gen with the Siemens had been nearly flawless for several years now.Thank you 🙏🏼I’d go with Heidenhain tbh. Much easier learning curve than Siemens. For 5-axis machining, Heidenhain is also superior over Siemens.Heidenhein is the best. Easier to use, more memory, more powerful computer, better integrated controls, etc. Less stupid shit behind overpriced paywalls.Downside, at least if you're in the US, is you'll be hardpressed to find people with Siemens CNC controls experience. Heidenhein is basically impossible. You'll have to train yourself and your people to use Heidenhein. This reason alone is why everyone goes FANUC even though it's overpriced poo straight out of the 90s. And the rest go Hass, being barely better being Windows XP era shite (3000$ for 64GB of flash storage? fuck outta here). Sometimes Okuma or Siemens tho.If you're buying this for yourself, 100% go heidenhein.I only have experience wirh Heidenhain so that answer would be easy for meIf you only run Siemens in your shop get the Siemens. If you are a Fanuc shop, HH.We can run both already, we run mazak and okuma, but we have experience with both siemens and HH, HH is way more expensive thoughSiemens is more common in the US and will be easier to get support for, but heidenhain is better IMOAssuming it's the same as an 840D control, you put a ";" in front of your comment.Siemens website has a programming manual for these machines. Used to use it all the time. IMO they easily have the best software. There are so many wild things you can do on a Siemens.I have a lot of 2100's and I have to do ;(comments)Worked, thanks very muchif you want the message show up in the top row you can also use msg ( YOUR TEXT)if it works like siemens 840d ofcourseBeginning of the line should be a semicolon, it should turn light grey after thatM0; notes should look like thisM0Cheers mateI run an 828d and leave myself messages a lot. Format is,NXX MSG ("YOUR TEXT")You need both the brackets and quotes.You can get rid of the message later on withNXX MSG ()In Heidenhain iTCN it's a #, in 828d it should be a ; It's been a while since I've used SinumerikFCT button, depending on the control vintage.Agreed. If FCT button does not work, there is a soft button. Either under the DMG button on the “machine” page, or under the “custom” page.Thank for the help. FCT button at the control does not work. External cooling does. Soft keys work as well if I get into that menu but only for external/cooling. Pretty confusing what's the problem here.I worked on a CTX 2500 with Siemens and you had to press the button for water on the control unit. Then the spraydown gun worked for about 2 minutes until you had to press it again.840D has a hard counter some where around the main power switch.Our one has analog counter on machine, but the other one doesn't.M68 maybe ?Bed flushing is M146 or M164 on our DMG with 840D. Might vary from machine to machine tho. Its probably a MTB choice, not a Siemens default.May I ask what Siemens control? If it is an 828 or 840 or maybe even a "sinumerik one" But no matter wich one it is when you find out how Siemens makes sense you can get the control to do pretty much anything. Especially if it is an 840d.It's 828d. I have used the same controller on an almost similar Jyoti CNC at a different shop before too, this is a very versatile one.One of the main jobs for this will be machining rope threads on couplers and drivers.Most machines I've run used M48/M49 to disable/enable the overrides in a program. Don't have anything with Siemens so your M-code may vary but I almost guarantee there's a code to disable the overrides.My heidenhains do thisI have the M code list but there are no M codes specified unfortunately. I’m in contact with the machine supplier and they have to change some PLC programs, thanks anyway!Check out OVR and OVRA in the Siemens variables.I have tried this but not with the desired outcome. OVR is an extra override, for example: with F1000, Override on 80% and OVR on 50% you’ll get F=(10000.800.50)=400. With OVRA you need to specify an axis/spindle but since I want to use it on an hardening machine there is no spindle specified.I’m in contact with the machine supplier and there are some ways but they need to nodigt some PLC programs. Thanks for the help!On my machines Thru Spindle Coolant has its own on and off codes. M07 is mist, M08 is flood, and M09 turns them both off. M88 is thru spindle and M89 is thru spindle off. M09 Won't turn off Thru Spindle Coolant, M89 has to be used. You may have to assign thru spindle off its own M code in your controller.Your controller is likely wired to the coolant solenoid via a relay output. You should be able to check the output of the controller with a multimeter (solenoid is llikey 120VAC or 24VDC) when you turn the cooolant on/off. Could be anything from a bad output, blown fuse (if it's protected), or a solenoid that's toast. Find your supply voltage, trace it down the line until you find the culprit.I have no experience with CYCLE800, but if it works like fanuc DWO then:Don't bother. It's not worth it. You have your WCS on the front of your platter at the moment. Just stick it in the centre of rotation of your zero point in X, centre of rotation of your 4th in Z and Y.Then just model and let fusion do the coordinate transform. It's not like you're going to be putting pieces at random positions on a rotary trunion, it's alwasys going to be located around your zero point.Then all you need to do is a small post process edit so that when it sees an A axis move, it moves the table home, M00 and a program comment on what to rotate the zero point angle to.We have a machine with 840d but no cycle800. We changed the post to give out the position of the a axis as parameters (r parameters) and call a macro. The macro takes the g54 offset (or whatever you are working on) and does some math with the values to calculate where the offset should be on the angle that is programmed. It then writes the values on g599 and uses that offset for machining.Everything where you have to dick around in cam every time you set something up ist bullshit in my opinion. I am working with large machines, though and my programs have to work for a guy who doesn't have access to cam so the best solution for you might be something else.From my experience they like to keep the tech side of things under lock and key so that you have to pay them to come out and do repairs. However while that technician is in your shop there's nothing stopping you from asking them questions and watching what they do. I actually became friends and exchanged numbers with the Siemens technician who used to come out and do maintenance work for us.We do all the maintenance work and all of the older guys are totally proficient on running the machines in maintenance mode, and they are teaching me. I was just seeing if perhaps there was a user manual for operators/technicians I could study in my off time.The PCU50 is used mainly as part program memory expansion. It has some other capabilities such as running step 7 classic for interfacing with the PLC, easy networking, and other higher level functions. Without the PCU50 the screen would be a thin client that would be displaying the screens as rendered on the NCU. The Sinumerik 840D as you are referring to it is actually the NCU and it is the brains for making all of the motion and PLC work.Sinumerik 840D is the name for the whole system and all of the parts that work together to create the CNC control.Thank for the clarification :)Sinumerik documentation has good enough resources for beginners, go through it. By the way what is this code about ?I just pulled up a random program block. I can alter programs just fine but we would like to know how to write a program from scratch, to be able to make a wave flute on an endmill.We downloaded the controls handbook but it doesn't tell you anything useful for using theses controls on a mill.Probably but I have over 200 different programs that I have altered and they all run just fine. I was just looking for help on a wave flute.Siemens has an Academy that has Turning Manufacturing Techniques courses. They are 4-5 days long and pricing varies. Great class and lots of great material that you can revisit.Contact your DMG MORI salesman or applications engineer directly. They will figure it out.If they don't help, call the national service line. There are some very talented AE's working the phones in Chicago.You paid for all of this support when you bought the machine. Put it to use.With a certain amount of experience, CAM on a 5 axis is going to be faster than manually machining multiple facets. That's just a sidenote.On another sidenote, who the fuck buys a DMU 65 without properly trained employees to utilize it? Don't they start at 400k new?Onto the actual question: nah man. i don't even know.I used to run a DMU50 at an aerospace place making titanium brackets. 4 hour cycle time with zero training on QC or operation. I quit that job. That's all of my relevant experience.feelsbadman.jpgIF I HAD TO GUESS.IF I HAAAD TO.I would imagine there's a way to set a new work offset for each face machined. Kind of like manually doing what the machine should somehow know to program (or your CAM should know how to program). Kinda like this:machine face one as G54 (x,y,z,b,c)2) clear tool above workpiece, keep your G98 HIGH AS FUCK3) program b and c axes to move to next face4) set new workpiece face as G55 (new x,y,z)5) machine that face6) run everything in single block at all times7) lose your shirt in programming time8) send someone to train to program 5 axis machining9) ???10) profitTrying to network my cnc to a pc but cant seem to change the ip on the cnc it keeps reverting back to DHCP when i try to manually change the ip to a unique oneIt gives me promt to reset (po) which i have done with manufacture mode onDunno why it keeps reverting. Some maint/admin access missing? I'd put in a router and use it to assign a static ip to the Siemens MAC address.Like a internet router just for the cnc so u can put it in static ip? 🤔Does my pc have to be connected via ethernet or is it fine if it’s wifi to the company networkRunning wifi to the company's network form the pc would work. Then harcwire Ethernet to the cnc connected router. Set up the cnc-side router on a seperate subnet from the corp side, and don't bridge the two connections on the pc ifl the cnc doesn't need to be on the corp network. Example, corp network could have it's router and dns at 182.168.1.1. CNC network router and dns could be something like 192.168.10.1. NC and other critical stuff doesn't always have the protections necessary to be connected to the outside. Besides, if it's running well, does it really.need to phone home? I've got an old CMM that I will never connect to the outside. It'd be like dumping a puppy in the middle of an eight lane expressway.Thanks for the info I’ll give it a tryEach of the submarines I was on had a lathe. They were mostly used to make chess sets.And make a mess.Can confirm, only time I have used the ships lathe was for a chess set. But I'm a deckhand so does it count?Former ships mechanic here. Usually you will have a lathe and bigger drill press + welding equipment etc. in the engine workshop. Expect both to be pretty fucked up and the tooling to be miserable. The ones "fitters" usually operating it are usually barely trained - at least at merchant vessels with international crews...Sounds like my life, but that's because I'm a hobbyist with a stupid fascination with vintage machines.Marine engineer here. Equipment can be brand new or rusted out. Expect to not have the necessary tooling bring what you can.Depending on vessel type and setup vibrations from the ship can be a serious problem.It's unusual for a machinist to board. Unless doing a special job on the way. For example crankshaft grinding in place etc.What are you planning?Good luck leveling your machinesMachinist who since became a marine engineer here.All ships will have a manual lathe, press drill and fixed grinder. Some even have press drills with cross table. Welding machine is mandatory.However, they will have suffered from years of neglect and misuse. In my 10 years at sea, I have sailed with maybe 4-5 Fitters that knew how to use a lathe. So expect the machine to be in very poor condition and the tools to be missing or broken. I have disassembled and overhauled several lathes as they were nearly unusable from abuse and neglect when I joined the vessel.That said, I have made all sorts of things during my trips, from emergency spare parts, to small hobby projects such as steam and stirling engines, when off duty. So it can be done.Edit for spellingIs that like making love in a canoe?Maybe. But for 5 hours instead of 5 minutes 🤒Old school Navy used to have dedicated shops with mills and lathes on smei suspension platformsThe US Navy carriers have surprisingly extensive machine shops and an entire rating to run them (shoutout to the MR's). I'm going off memories from 15+ years ago here, but on Truman we had two Bridgeport-style mills, two lathes (one small, one medium), a drill press, and a little Haas TL something or other. I also remember a smattering other other small machines like one of those RAM EDM machines used to remove broken taps and the like. Nimitz had a similar setup.Let me tell you, I was there when we put that Haas in and that was a bitch getting it all the way down to the third deck. Getting it down to the second deck was easy with the weapons elevators but going through that hatch with chainfalls... 2/10 would not do again.Somewhat unrelated, but I'm kind of wanting to go into the military, but I also really enjoy machining. Would you recommend joining the navy as a machinist? I haven't looked super extensively into it, I'm just aware that it is an option.Worked with a WWII navy vet. He said one time they went to the bilge to get an piece of pig iron ballast to make something the ship needed Said he had a walk through of a Japanese factory after peace treaty was signed where small subs were made. Had a Brown and Sharpe chart on the wall. Said he needed one on the ship so took it with him.All the setups I've seen on mil vessels are cramped, and the machines look scavanged from someone's great grandfather's shed.Did see a private sailer set up a 3D printer, mini lathe, and working on a mini CNC mill for his sailboat. But he seemed to have more money than the USN.Sounds like a nightmareI was a machinist in the Navy and I was on 6 different ships from 800 feet long to 200 feet long, brand new to 45 years old. They all had at least a lathe and drill press. One ship did not have a bench grinder so I would clamp a pneumatic angle grinder in a vise and tape the valve open to grind tool bits or sharpen drills. As was mentioned earlier - think outside the box. I made gears with hacksaws and files and made nylon parts out of screw driver handles (piston for a CO2 transfer pump). If we need flat stock we cut pipe lengthwise and pounded it flat. Running machines underway is a different animal - I never had issues with the machines or accuracy but you have to be extremely careful you don't fall into the machine... On one ship the lathe didn't have reverse so we had to take the belts off and twist them to run the spindle in reverse (internal threading)Does machining on a ship pay good?I'll earn like 3x my hourly pay for the 10 days I'm going to stay there. It's pretty niceI was an MR in the Navy on an aircraft carrier. You don’t always have what you need but you can make anything work if you are able to think outside the box.I've used the 840d on both a 5axis mill and a lathe. Enjoyed the mill version more but I found both easy to use. However both of the machines came with the 840 as stock not retrofit. Having received rofitted a machine myself and currently doing another one (different controller though) I can tell you that if it's done badly or "hacked" together then it'll generally have some bugs, small and big. Often not even the controllers fault but either hardware issues or not calibrated well.I’m not sure I understand your frustration.Is it when to use the different types of block search?Granted all the 840Ds I work with are 4/5 axis mills, so hopefully it crosses over to what you need.I'm not aware that there is but I haven't looked into it specifically. I just use G91 when I want incremental movesI run Siemens840 all day and have had not an issue, im assuming all your tool offsets are set to 0 and your touching them all off the top of the part? Or your tools are already measured before you start the job?How would i create the directory if it doesnt exist or do I even need it to connect my cnc to a windows pcMessage me later, I’ll take a screen shot of my setup when I get into the office later today.Appears to be a Linux based OS, but take this with a grain of salt."With great power comes great headaches" that's how NX was explained to me when I was getting started with it. Super capable powerful software for CAM that I generally enjoy using, especially because we have digital twins for the machines I use it on. I have near 100% confidence it won't crash.do you know somewhere where I can find tutorials? the ones my uni gave are quite bad.Yeah honestly it's hard for me to use fusion360 or soldiworks after spending so much time in NX, just because everything else crashes all the time.I am a 14 year veteran of NX and disagree with you. Step files are actually pretty easy to open with the software and as far as changing the MCS it’s not complicated. I went through Siemens training for 3 months and became a lead tutor in NX with a major defense contractor that I work for. We not only use NX to design we also use it to program all of our machining centers in our shops. In my opinion it’s a great design tool.Step files are actually pretty easy to open with the softwareI hope by pretty easy to open you mean literally clicking it and opening it because if it's more than that holy fuck.If you think NX is bad, dont ever try 3dexperience.NX has a steep curve but its extremely powerful and very robust.Your spelling and grammar really show you will make a great programmer some day.I can't speak for NX itself until I can convince my company to give me a license, which I think runs $30k (only hearsay, don't know exactly). If I need to model something I just fire up AutoCAD.I do use Teamcenter and VizPro for a lot of development and prototype work though. Usually it's for telling engineers "shit ain't gonna fuckin work mate".I think NX shines more when complex assemblies, workflows, and overall hands-in-the-pot are going on. I think data security capabilities also win in that regard.I don’t think ergonomic is the word you are looking forNX is my fave I’ve used. Surface modeling and wave linking are so powerfulI'm an operator trying to learn how to CAD/CAM in NX. It is a very complicated software to me. I downloaded Fusion 360 one weekend on my personal computer for fun and wow I was blown away about how much simpler it wasNX is not intuitive, I feel like the big companies are kinda stuck with their CAD software. NX is old, based on code from ages ago, optimized for specific hardware. And I use it every day. It does some things well, others great. Some updates just kill functions I've used exclusively. But it lets you modify almost anything, fusion is intuitive, but harder to get the nitty gritty fine detail stuff. Sounds like you aren't integrated with team center, that's another can of worms. Just keep plugging away, you'll get the hang of it, use the command finder(I hate the new one integrated with search).“Some updates just kill functions I’ve used exclusively.”Imagine how upset I was when we went from NX11 to version 1953 or whatever the fuck and they removed the ability to customize threads from the model thread tool. Instead, you could either edit the freaking NX_Standard_Thread XML file or draw the form and extrude it along a helix. Instead of clicking three times and hitting apply.I use NX 8 hours a day 5 days a week for tooling design. Happy to help where I can. Which version are you on?thx man, I have no idea what version I am on. my non-cutting moves are in G1 and they dont want to go in G0.NX is amazing; and a very, very steep learning curve.It's software for full time, professional, programmers. You have to daily drive it to learn it.Good luck!NX Cad is alright. NX CAM is terrible.NX is designed by engineers, for engineers. Engineers love complicated, arbitrarily sorted menus and incomprehensible, perpetually out of date documentation. (Don't let them claim otherwise.) That is why engineers love using NX, because engineers are UX masochists.I've been using NX for about 3 years now. I'm far from an expert on it but it's by far my favorite CAD software.Autodesk Powermill enters the chat 🙄From my perspective, the bigger the company, the bigger software, the more convoluted the process. I use a lot less expensive CAD and CAM for hobby because it is all I can afford. The truth is I have to give up some convenience but it just works. At work we use NX and it is so frustrating.It might be due to you not loading tools into the tool chain and into the spindle.The buffer pocket is the pocket it's going to store the spindle too so theoretically it should be right but sometimes these controls want things done a certain way.Like our 830 won't allow our lathes to use positioning to drill holes across from one another. You have to use the bolt circle feature that does the exact same thing but is different somehow.There was 0 tools in the magazine i input 1 in the spindel. Then 2 tools on slot 1 and 3, slot 2 gives alarm saying its a buffer pocket.But this alarm shows up each tool change Also how do u change the tool currently in the spindel and make it go back into the magazineOutside of that, what happens if you load them to different pockets?H codes are used differently depending on machine tool manufacturers. Siemens 840D has too many variables for that little bit of code. Can you provide more information?Don't h codes generally indicate a height offset? In this case, isn't the code suggesting that the height offset for one tool is equal to that of the other? It could be that one tool is used for 2 operations that have different definitions of what that tool is in the program. We used a chamering tool to do engraving in my 4th year final, but only had slots in the machine for 8 tools, so used the same offset, same tool, just gave it different definitions in mastercam so that we could program different tool pathsIt was a rough bore op and then another in the finish bore op. It is Sinumerik 840d. I’m only asking because I’ve not seen it before on similar parts. Different programmers have different quirks where I work.On DMG MORI CTX TC Machines H74=75 is B1-Axis Clamp an H74=76 B1-Axis UnclampIt has nothing to do with tool offsets. Sinumerik uses D value for that.H codes are functions like M codes that transfer informations to PLC and can have adjustable values. Manufacturer specify H codes and what they do. If it's DMG, it should be in machine manual what each code does.Do you have any hydraulic/pressurised air workholding mounting system on your machine? My DMG mill manual says that H74 is for locking/unlocking mounting system and value means how much it is delayed. I belive it may be 0,74s delay.I see H, I think of C axis, like spindle rotation increments, but I'm surprised to see so many other different uses for HT5 M6S2000 M3G43 H5 D5Height offset for Haas.h is height for 3 axis. i assume thats a macro for offsetting a tool. if i were you id find out wh(at)(y) feature that created but the rest of the code is fucking wonky too. send the full program and ill tell you what the part looks like and why they added a second tool offset.Not to be obtuse, whats the N lines for? I see every line start with N and the digits climb by 10. I use the H code for tool height call in the off-set page. Tool 1 oal height =2.5 inches off the head, soT1 H1 + 1. This allows me to "step over" and arbitrary Zero touch off.The N is just line numbers in the program.Control almost not working, help menu alsoseriously thought you made multiple typos.. no it's just typical modern Siemens with crazy names.https://plm.sw.siemens.com/en-US/nx/products/compare-nx-x-cad-bundles/Sorry, I don't have any exp with NX X. Mastercam sucks balls though, so don't ever reach out for a sample.It depends on your type of work. For high end 5 axis work, with sim it can be really nice and has lots of amazing features when combined with team center and the MRL.I use it for my own business but it was a toss up for experience/preference vs cost. I prefer it for and end to end solution since we machine our own products. Makes revision control and updates way more simple.How does the cloud based portion work. Is it just your data. But the software is actually installed on your workstation. I was mainly concerned with it speed and stability. Seems like some cloud based software can be slower or crash more oftenAsk which modules are Included. Here is a list of the major cam based modules. They get paired into bundles or you add what you want. I'd start to compare which modules are in the cloud based vs other quoteteam center rapid startteam center authorNX foundationmach 3 designer or cad designer 2 or cad designer 1nx simulationMRLcam 2axcam 3axcam turningcam 5axFBM authorrotary machiningturbo machinerywire EDM advancedwork instr authordata managementpost config fullI've only ever seen the 828D which is very similar to the 840Dsl. There have been many advancements made to the Siemens control as a whole in the last ten or so years. I speak very highly of them because they're a really great control. The conversational, however, I'm a little iffy about because I'm biased from my days on Mazak mills and Mori conversational is also quite good. Shopmill leaves some to be desired when coming from those systems.Download sinutrain and use the trial version to get a feel for it.Is the Sinutrain a shopmill system or like a sinumerik?You're looking for a CAM software with a post-processor for Siemens controllers.Fusion360 might be the most accessible for you.It looks like a 3d printer gcode but not really.What is this file ?It's just CNC g-code. Siemens controllers look for a .mpf file extension but it's a text file.Hi, thanks for your answer. I will check fusion360 and other CAM software. I suppose the difficult part is to find the correct post-processor.Chez nous on utilise fusion 360 et on met le fichier .nc sur une clé USB et on copie colle dans un fichier .ISO sur l'ordi sous windows 95Salut, merci pour ta réponse, par contre je me questionne, si tu utilises fusion360 qui te permet de générer le fichier, qu'est ce qui te force a utilisé un Windows95 ?G33 thread cutting is usually used with Machines setup with G code system B. Most lathes are system A which means you have to use G32 instead of G33.Try G32 to see if it works.The Siemens controls i know can be set to understand different dialects of G-code.https://cache.industry.siemens.com/dl/files/498/65371498/att_107420/v1/ISO_0909_en_en-US.pdfIdk if that applies to your Touch2000.A friendly warning. If you're thinking about making any changes to that copy of the embedded windows. Or attempting to install anything like antivirus software. Yeah I would say don't. You're going to end up with a non-running machine.There should be no access to the internet from that machine under any circumstances anyway. That machine should only be on a closed network. There should be no internet access.So antivirus and hardening is a very bad idea ?When you first switch the machine on there should be a screen when it shows what operating system it is going to boot, Windows boot manager I believe. It will probably only show for 1 second or less but when it does you need to use the arrow down or up keys to move the selector to the windows option. This maybe an option that highlights with no text name.I run an old danobat 840D sinumerik that you can access the start menu by pressing the control key and then the alarm cancel button at the same time.Depends if Operate runs on a PCU / IPC or on the NCU.I think this one runs on a PCU. So after Boot or EXIT there should apear a countdown somewhere 5 to 1.  Press 3 to Boot in Windows.If not press 3 when the base Version apears in the lower right corner.Still hard to understand how these function 😂 For this one you right.I noticed that we have multiple scenarios :840D with PCU running windows And 840D without PCU running Linux.All of these can run DOS by default alsoCan a NCU handle windows or any OS ? I know that there is a virtual PLC S7 inside sometime.There’s a key you have to press when it’s booting the windows embedded to allow it continue into windowsYeah but without booting ?So why do some companies load their software over Windows anyway? When they power up a new nuclear powered aircraft carrier, they don't load navy.bat over Windows. Nobody has downloaded virus.funhouse.exe into their Chevy Cruise and had the airbags jettison everyone out the sunroof. And my pacemaker never shows up on anybodies wireless network. If it would have saved them fifty cents, the auto makers sure as hell would have used Windows XP in their cars. So why is anybody using Windows for shop equipment and tempting fate that some bored button pusher is going to have enough self control to not try to install solitaire on their lathe?And what does Hordmann and Alzmettal mean?Hamburger reset tooAnd Ctrl Alt Delete is practically a single button!Once you go Siemens you never go back.Those are mice are about $220 a piece now from Digikey. They use the same ones for their industrial automation SIMATIC Panel PCs.Grob?An NX class could be pretty valuable. Depends where you are in your career though.As a general rule NX will be used by companies with more complex machining needs. Having actual NX experience would put you in front of other programmers, but won't be very valuable if you are just starting out.Never give up more training to broaden your knowledge :). I never thought I would use seimens systems until I started I'm my current job. Now I can't imagine going back to any other cam software, or machine systems :)I would absolutely take an opportunity to lear NX if you can! Especially if the learning environment is quality and you have access to a good instructor.NX is probably the definitive overall leader in CAM right now. The Siemens team is constantly pushing it forward. Most CAM systems sort of have their roots in one area of manufacturing, and half-ass the rest of the toolset just to tick feature checkboxes. NX is either best in class or 2nd/3rd across nearly every facet of manufacturing. If I had a job shop with a bunch of machines and wanted One CAM To Rule Them All, NX is the very best choice available.(If I was a Swiss turning shop, or if I did a lot of 3D surfacing tool-path, I might look at other options, but NX can be configured and templates designed for my shop's gear that would still bring it up to something close to what the best Swiss or contours-centric CAM systems can do).Having said that, NX is one of the world's most complex, oldest pieces of software. There is still code lurking under the hood from the days of those green phosphorous screens. Remember, NX is Unigraphics, and if you look up your history of computing, you'll see the name Unigraphics present at the very advent of graphical computing and CAD/CAM. It has a lot of legacy cruft. It has a lot of it's own conventions, and convolutions, and nooks + crannies. The UI is overwhelming with massive features hidden deep in menus and checkboxes. Fundamentally, it operates like any other CAM system (because, let's be frank here, every other CAM system owes it's bones to NX).Having an instructor guide you through all this complexity and get you familiar with the lay of the land is invaluable. Unlike SolidWorks or MasterCAM; NX is typically used by closed-off engineers in giant companies, so the open user community is small, there are limited YouTube tutorials, and classes are big $$$.I run 828ds daily. Anything specific you have problems with?Your machine control should have a pretty good built in indexed manual. I am not kidding you, look for the [ i ] button labeled "Help". Three quarters of what I know about running that controller I know from that button lol.All I'm looking for is an example of a roughing/finishing canned cycle.I have the geometry I want to run but im getting syntax errors when I input everything.The manuals im finding online are somewhat helpful but they seem to kinda bounce around.I'm not sure exactly what im doing wrong but it seems to be with the way im calling the cycle.I think you will be much happier if you do your programming in SHOP TURN.It's the Siemens conversational that is built into the controller. When you start a new file, you have the option to make a .MPF file or a Shopturn file. There is tons of documentation and instructions online. It is arguably the best conversational system for turning.If you insist on programming longhand, I still recommend you abandon ISO formatting and just used the Siemens canned cycles so you get a nice, graphical interface.At this point I will take either one. I've tried both and can't get either to work.I have about 6 different manuals with various formats for each downloaded. none of them will run due to syntax errors but nothing I change fixed the issue alarms are vague and don't help much.Manuals didn't come with the machine so im really at a loss here as to what I actually need.I have no options to create a shopturn profile. I have .mpf wpd mpf spf and the rest are offsets and tool data.https://support.industry.siemens.com/cs/document/109768584/technical-documentation-for-sinumerik-840d-sl-version-4-92?dti=0&lc=en-CAI ran the 810d for over a decade. I believe the 840d is very similarThe conversational programming on that is so powerful, there is very little you can’t do with it. From your pic in one of the submenus, if I remember right the arrow facing right, will give you the option of changing to ‘shop turn’ or ‘manual turn’ go with that. From there a program is a collection of cycles put together. Or you can just do it cycle by cycle.That arrow key does nothing on that screen. Left arrow right arrow soft keys all nothing at this point.Tried creating a new file under spf instead of mpf and still nothingFor uptime/ reliability, go with Makino or Okuma.I second this. In a past life, we had 3 okuma hmcs, 3 lathes. We had 2 mazak vmcs, and 2 turning centers. Basically production would follow thru the okumas if possible. Everything else, smaller batches, oddball parts and prototypes thru the mazaks. Both ran smooth and well and with a decent post were no trouble to program for either without skipping beat. Using Mazatrol is one factor I knew places lean on it and others steer away from it. Other than that, both are decent all around equipment.Is the only reason you don't want a haas is because you want to try and learn a new controller? That's a pretty bad argument to convince someone writing a six figure check.As I said in a previous comment, not opposed to Haas. I’ve been running 2 VF4’s for 10 years and never had an issue.But when I can get a Doosan with TSC and Airblast for cheaper than the Haas it feels like it would be an easier sell.The price of a machine is just one thing to consider when making a buying decision. It might seem like you're getting more bang for your buck with a non-Haas machine, but total cost of ownership might look different.You need qualified operators, multiple of them. You want to keep flexibility with assigning operators to stations. You need to maintain your machines and have service figured out in case things go wrong. Maybe you keep some spares on site.If you introduce a new breed of system, you increase complexity of your organization. Which is not necessarily a no-go, but should be considered as a cost factor besides the direct costs of a machine.BMW was ordering new machines (or rather production lines) from Grob with SINUMERIK 840D pl CNCs although Siemens alteady officially discontinued an replaced them with the newer and more capable 840D sl. BMW payed a significant premium for it, because the 840D pl controllers had to be ordered as spare parts. But going for a different controller generation in a manufacturing site would mean training many people, getting new spares on stock etc. Way to costly for a single production line. Paying the premium was cheaper.Sooo... Be careful what you push for. It might create organizational troubles. If you look at the machine holistically in your companies organization and can present a solid and economically viable plan for all the relevant factors, you might be able to convince your boss.We were a Haas shop that had 2 EC400's. Then when we needed a new one, somehow ownership was talked into 2 Makino's. The Makino's were obviously night and day difference, and they eventually bought one more. I hated the EC400's from day one. Terrible chip control, leaked terribly out of the sheet metal, and the indexing left a lot to be desired (I think it was limited to half a degree increments?). Every program had to be an M99 cause the system essentially ran the main programs as a sub routine inside a pallet rotation main, if that makes sense. I was limited to a .781" at 11 IPM (mid steel) Indexable drill for size, as anything bigger or faster would knock the pallet off vertical. It's a Haas, so it wouldn't alarm, it'd just wear out the mounting and give you a non-perpindicular hole.I now work for a specific MTB dealer and specialize in HMC turn-keys for them. I will say, the machine you're looking at, is about 10x better for rigidity and stock options. It'll blow Management's mind when they see the size of iron compared to Haas options. Oh, and the chip control is much better! Good luck in the dealings!I’d never buy another haas. Mills aren’t bad but the service end is horrible. You never know when they’ll actually show up to fix shit and they almost always need 2 chances at fixing it. I’m a big fan of Hurco but I don’t know if they make a horizontal.I'm biased to makino for horizontals. Worked at a shop that ran them, and they were very rigid and held tolerances day in and out. These machines were 5-7 years old, with 10s of thousands of hours on them, ran production on them 6 days a week with cast iron and tool steels, and they never skipped a beat.The huge tool magazines helped a lot on the production side of things accounting for tool breakage and no down time for replacing tooling when utilizing macro programming and in process checking. I was impressed at what I could do with them from a programming standpoint.We got a Mazak 500mm horizontal after having a Haas EC-500 that didn’t do well, if you really look spec for spec it isn’t even close. Not sure how the management at your place looks at stuff but for us it was a huge eye opener.Okuma. The control is so much better then anything else. I’m sorry, not even a fight.Slip in “Okuma” every time you speak with them at least once per conversation“We really should be looking at Makino” 😂😂In my workshop, we had 7 Haas (vf and umc) and I spent many hours dismantling them to change defective parts, recalibrate the 5 axes, not to mention the wear of the stainless steel tools. We change them for Mazaks and it’s pure joy. The Mazatrol command is easy to use. I can only recommend it.They didn’t like Fanuc, but are okay with Haas?? The controls are nearly identical.Haas has 50 service vehicles in Chicagoland for a reason. Idk where you are but in Chicago you have every machine tool dealer and MFG show rooms within a 15 mile stretch down 90. If he’s willing to spend hundreds of thousands of dollars on capital equipment, he should at the very least take an hour to see what’s available to him in the area. No joke, you can walk right in those doors and ask any question you want, no appointment needed. My company will even fire up a machine and run some test cuts.For volume a horizontal gives you load capacity enabling the spindle to never stop. In a vertical you'd have two setups on two vices, end of cycle open the door, unload and load so the spindle stops. In a horizontal the unloading and loading is done on the outside pallet. Having more loading space and using it lets you run the machine when the shop is closed (in between shifts or the weekend). You can squeeze at least a shift a week out of a horizontal, it keeps running on lunch breaks.One guy can run one vertical at a time or multiple horizontals.Haas= decent vertical. Does not = good horizontalIf you want a great horizontal, buy an Okuma. Take it from someone who has ran multiple different brands of machines. If you want reliability and consistency in parts, then get an Okuma.We run all Mazak for CNC in our shop and once you get the controls down they’re pretty damn goodWe use karaki, Toshiba, doosan, and occasionally a Taurus gundrill for horizontal work. All of them do very well and learning a new controller is nothing. Figuring out where the controls are on a new car is harder don’t worry.NX is standard for aerospace here in New England.When in doubt, say you have the experience then binge some YouTube videos. NX is industry standard in much of Europe, it's got a bit more functionality and modularity (I think) than SOLIDWORKS and similar CAD programs.NX is great for collaboration and large companies. Annual maintenance costs for 2 seats of NX design and a seat of NX CAM was about $13K 5 years ago. It’s very powerful, and since it was developed by Siemens it works very well with their Sinumerik control, especially for 5ax work. You don’t just sit down with YouTube and become familiar with it in a couple evenings though, and I wouldn’t recommend saying you understand it if you don’t because it will quickly become obvious. Compared with MasterCAM, SurfCAM, or GibbsCAM, the learning curve for NX is very STEEP.Yes and NX is a bigger beast than other CAD softwares I have used (Solidworks/CATIA). An experienced programmer would likely have no trouble learning but it’s not as easy as “watching some YouTube videos” unless someone has some insanely thorough tutorials of all the thousands of options and sub menus you can navigate.I'm a high-level user of SolidWorks, ProE/Creo and NX.Emphasize your overall experience with CAD. Your familiarity with the process of developing a CAD model is more important than your familiarity with the specific CAD program.I took an NX class about 10 years ago after working with SolidWorks and ProE for a decade. I only needed to attend half of the class sessions to complete the course. If you already know the steps that you need to use to complete a design task (extrude, revolve. . .), the class will simply show you how NX does things differently. Once you get the hang of it, you should be able to self-direct yourself to proficiency.It appears like it would be easy to pick up if you’re familiar with other cad software from the screenshots I just saw on Google. I had never heard of it til now.Yes, we used to or.. some still do. After seeing fusion 360 some 5 6 years ago. I never looked back. It is, together with catia and solidworks to expensive to old fashioned with a poor user interface which only a mother can love. The last thing I used it for was for some 4th axis movement some 4 years ago. I used nx since ideas and ug. It only got worse with the years. Seriously how many menus do one need to make fillets. Choices should be made after you pressed the only fillet button. Just to make a point. Nx hade like... 27 buttons for the same thing with ugly as fuck sub menus. The inheritance from 90s unix is something better left in the 90sPretty common in aero industry. I use NX every dayIt’s a shame when employers aren’t willing to train their employees. Just want that easy turnkey employee with no investment of their own.We use NX for CAD and CAM. Damn expensive. Pretty powerful software, takes quite a bit of work to get the advanced tool library up and running. Training course I was sent to kinda sucked, was left to figure it out for myself. I still like it over GibbsCam or Mastercam.I think NX Is usually more used as a CAD software in big companies but I don't think Is reallt used as a CAM software because there are other more advanced like Mastercam and Esprit. It's Solid Edge's big (and expensive) Brother.Yeah to me it’s all learnable. I find it odd for a company to hinge their whole hiring process in cad software when it isn’t really important IMO compared to experience.I'm curious why you think mastercam or esprit is more advanced than nx?Solid Edge and NX both use the same model engine (Parasolid), many cad systems use this Parasolid model library, but each one does it differently. onShape (online web based CAD) also uses Parasolid and you'll find some similarities to NX. But different.Solid Edge != NX. Suite different markets.We use NXYeah it’s really powerful but not user friendly unless you’re a legacy user. Hypermill is much betterAgree. Shame HyperMill isn’t industry standard at this point as it absolutely shits on MasterCAMI use NX to modify models / make fixtures then I move to mastercam to make programs. Nx can make program just fine but I feel a bit faster with mastercam.The way I was taught to program in NX was more delicate than what I do in Mastercam that’s why it’s faster for me in mastercam.I've used NX, but not in a machine shop / programming setting.The way I put it is: Solidworks designs the machine, NX designs the factory to build the machine.It's pretty big in the Auto and Aerospace industries.When I worked at BorgWarner we had specific designers who used NX for the European auto parts. I asked if I could learn, but was told no need, use Solidworks. Licensing is very expensive, learning curve is steep. We never used the 5-axis features, all our parts were made on Okumas.What's the air speed velocity of an unladen swallow?It honestly depends on how hard you can throw them.African or European?How many times can you turn / repurpose a wheel before you need to get a new one?That will depend on how much damage the wheel has, if it pass the ndt tests, and of course, how much material they have left. I'd say anywhere between 3-5 times? But it's bot my expertise, so take that number with a huge grain of salt.Lmao i do the same for belgium.How do you guys do it? We have 45 hour working weeks.As a machinist myself i've alway wonderd with what kind of tolerances train wheels are machined and with what kind of machine (tool, setup etc..) is it a kind of special lathe ?As for the reprofiling, we use a multi purpose cnc lathe, where we reprofile brake discs, axels and, of course, wheels.Is it true you use Guinness Stout as cutting fluidWhat's your job?Axle-wheel assembly, refurbishment and quality control. When a train is due for refurbishment, we got the axles, take the wheels out, take the bearings out, gearboxes too, refurbish the axles, refurbish the bearings and the gearboxes, reprofile the wheels, reprofile the brake discs, and then assembly everything back together, everything operating on very narrow levels of tolerance.Did you work on machines before, or did the Irish Railway Train you?I did work on machines before, but the railway also gave me an astonishing amount of training.Are you just re-machining the wheels or are you machining new parts for the railway service ?We get axels, wheels, brake discs, gear boxes (with all their inside bits) from external manufacturers all over the EU and we remachine them to our specific specs.Good old Siemens. Drove a lathe with that for many years. Only ever used the manual turn side of it though.All the cnc machines here are siemens, excellent for a cnc mill that's older than the siemens cnc division.Whats you’re most loved Irish expat abroad and why is it Conor McGregor?Hello from Cork! 4th year toolmaker apprentice here working for an aerospace/medical company. Did you do any trade or just start out as an operator?The measurement cycles have parameters that let you measure only, or measure and adjust a work or tool offset to achieve a desired size. Open the mask on the control and press the help button and you should see the options available. Or download a measurement cycles manual from Siemens. It’s all built in.https://support.industry.siemens.com/cs/document/109766724/sinumerik-828d?dti=0&lc=en-WWAlmost all cycles have an output variable for a variety of values.Measurement cycles: https://support.industry.siemens.com/cs/document/109760803/sinumerik-840d-sl-828d-measuring-cycles?dti=0&lc=en-WWFor example...cycle978() has output a variable _ovr[16] that dumps out the difference value. see image... https://i.imgur.com/Cfwg1Hu.png There are different _ovr[#] variables for various outputs. You can feed that into a quick math to current tool offset variable. I unfortunately don't remember the variable name off the top of my head but the answers can be found in the above support link.Example... This sets new tool radius offset based on the difference value measured off a cycle978().$TC_DP15 = $TC_DP15 - _ovr[16]source: https://support.industry.siemens.com/cs/document/109767452/sinumerik-840d-sl-tools?dti=0&lc=en-WWhttps://i.imgur.com/v8CXCzC.pngI'm using 840D sl. There are similar documentation for 828DI am asking Scandinavian folk bcs they are closerOften times the scale can be cleaned and the scale reader head can be replaced independently of the entire scale.Company 1. Learning NX will open you up to bigger opportunities. We have a programmer position open right now at my place. Pay is $39/hr with room to grow in the future. Requirement is someone who has a few short years od NX under theire belt.Go with the one that will teach you the most, or the one you want to learn. I would go for the company utilizing Siemens NX.Who's paying more, what are the benefits like, what are the hours like, what's the commute like, what's the room for improvement, will they train you and let you move up?I'd go for aluminum work. More forgiving, more cutting edge programming, since you have to go faster, less frustration.Either way, sound like you're getting into some pretty cool stuff. I think the difference professionally is negligible, it just comes down to personal taste.Most aerospace shops Use Mastercam. You're gonna have a hard time finding another shop that actually uses NX.And in terms of experience, having experience with a wide range of materials makes you a lot more marketable than just machining aluminum.This is a little bit regional.Boeing St. Louis (Military) uses NX and at least one of the larger suppliers follows suit.Boeing Washington (Commercial) uses Catia. Of course some shops follow suit.Boeing pays more for a Catia/Unigraphix guy than they do a Mastercam guy. About $10/hr more.Benefits play a big role in the decision for me. How many days of PTO? 401k or pension plan?Personally? Shop 2. Mostly because I prefer smaller shops - the smaller the shop, the more focused they'll be on you and your potential as an individual. It's a lot easier to prove your worth and move up in a small shop.Honestly, I'll never work in aerospace again just because of the paperwork and micromanagment necessary to running an operation like that. I get why it's important, especially in aerospace, but it's just not my cup of tea.Could do a 7 degree tapered endmill with a relief grind to avoid the counterbore and a normal endmill for the cb. Probably not the best way but it'll save you the math. Don't know if award does a 7 degree mill buy we run the 10 degree ones and they're great for the price, carbide is like $20 for a 1" doc and the hss is even cheaperThis might be easiestTapered end mill, maybe?Helical interpolate with a small corner rad bullnose endmill, like 0.01" rad. That shallow of an angle and you won't even be able to tell that there is a rad in the corner.I do that shit all the time and it's fine. If the mating part doesn't account for a small inner rad then the engineer needs to go back to school to learn how to design parts for the real world.Swept surface helical down the wall with a flat bottom endmill after rough out.(Its what my Hurco calls it)A CAM software would hit this no problem with and endmill.But SF may be to good right.The 64-125 ra may be a problem. You may want to get a tappered endmill and add in scallops to it as to create the specified surface and maintain it.Rough, semi with flat bottom, and ruff up suface is what I would do.I have done this a few times. On aluminum for some sort of press in plug stopper.Perhaps a single point threadmill, programmed to helical interpolate to get 90ra down the taper?You have options I think.Normally in this case I do radial roughing, then radial finish with a mill with a decent corner rad for a better finish, then finish the bottom with a pretty flat millEdit: ah, drill first of courseYou can buy tapered end millsA assume you are milling it from the top? Drill it and then helical bore it with a radiused slot mill. Hogging is out of the picture with that strategy and you'd have to have one lying around that's the right size to enter the hole and reach the sides at the bottom. Leave some stock you can fuck around a bit with speeds/feeds for a good finish.If bottom, circular bore with a bullnose. Swarf it if you wanna show off.For a turret mill ( Bridgeport) Put it on a rotary table and tilt the head ...I'm assuming you don't have access to cam or custom tooling or you wouldn't be asking this question. Either of those would be simple enough.I would use a macro program to cut the angle/radius with a sharp cutter. Leave a few thou to clean up and keep your step over low. Feel free to dm if you need an example.Drill thru .280”, rough interpolate 7deg taper and .438”bore .leave .020” stock per side and .010”on floor, then use Form tool to finish. Spring pass .438” dia with square endmill if is on the low.Conical Endmills carry 7-degree end mills (14) included. You cool just pre drill and do a circle path at final depth with the tapered em.This will probably be the wayRough with a straight endmill on a rotary. Tapered endmill for a few finish passes....(?)That's probably bestTapered endmill all day. Or a special to interpolate both Dias would work fine in 6061. Def prefer a helical tool, not a straight fluteSince you have a 5 axis you can hand program it using your rotary. Goto your start point let's say X10 y0 c0 go down to to straight bore z-1 make a circle with G2 or G3 and then make a G1 move x5 y0 z-10 c36000. Make the c move as big as you need it to be for your desired smoothness.I've never tried it this way and maybe I'm missing something. You will have to put your hole on xy0. Compensating it being off center might get a little hard if you are not familiar with probing routinesAlso I didn't take into account the actual dimensions since I'm on mobileI was seeing the rest of the drawing is possible to tellInterpolate down and don't tell anyone 🤭Although I don’t like Mazatrol, I still say that it’s probably the best as far as conversational programming for mills. Very few other mills have good conversational programming.Other options would be a machine with a Siemens control that has the Shop Mill programming capabilities or a Hurco which are known for great conversational programming.I really like Heidenhain and Siemens for conversational. Heidenhain is extremely intuitive imo.Plus 1 for Heidenhain. Their G code IS conversational. Lots of canned cycles and datum/plane shift programs as well. If you really dive into it, it has a basic cam software inside it you can use while the mill is running. That part's harder to figure out though, I haven't needed to use it yet.I can only speak to one control and that’s Hurco. We like them here at our shop we have 8 and I would say that 95% of the parts we make are programmed in Hurcos conversational.Hurco have winmax control whitch has quite accessible conversational programming. I learned on this control after and now use fanuc mills. I sometimes I wish I had access to some of the patern rotate and patern duplicate features.Just go straight for the VF3 (VM3 is slightly better). CNC programming is not hard if you’re computer literate.Conversational machines are sold as an easier alternative to G code. Mainly for old people that are scared of computers. They’re not easier. They’re super clunky and you have to tie up the machine for programming. With something like fusion or Mastercam you can program while the machine is running.Someone else mention Mazaks. That’s probably the best option if you’re stuck on having a conversational machine. You also have the option to program them with a CAM packages. Plus they’re a much better machine than a HAAS or a Hurco.If the conversational control thing gets the CEO to greenlight a Mazak as an upgrade to a Tormach , then maybe it's a blessing in disguise. As long as it has the EIA option on it(if that's still even an option) you can program them from your CAM software of choice. Never been around their verticals, but I love their 50 taper horizontals and mill/turns. I did minimal work in mazatrol and just did most things in Mastercam at that shop, but a few non-cam literate people in the shop seemed to really like mazatrol and were pretty quick at it.I have two vertical Mazaks and have liked the machines for the past year since we got them. Haven’t learned the Mazatrol yet because I think g code is easy. I’m programming in Inventor and have set up really good posts for the machines. My opinion of conversational programming is that it making the easy stuff easier and the hard stuff harder. So I recommend the mazaks and just using a CAM system to program. The CAM systems are basically conversational anyways, you just go through the screens and select the setting for each tool path, and you have more control than a typical conversational system.Why do people think g code is hard?Just program in fusion.How are they trained and not know g code?I vote Mazak or Hurco. Both of those have great convo programming.We had a lathe with Siemens 810d. When we got a mill I thought they’d stick to what we knew. They got one with prototrak. Wow. How easy was that to learn.I've personally used Cincinnati and Trak conversational controls. The Trak was better for working off a drawing. It handled tangent radiuses without forcing you to do math. Both worked great for cooperative control where you're manually moving the mill and starting canned standard cycles at location. (I.e. mill a hole, thread mill, pockets, hole patterns, etc.).Conversational control is great for simple 1-off prototypes where the machinist can cut the part from a napkin sketch faster than you can make a CAD model and CAM program.Our shop is all Southwestern machines. I guess it's all TRAK controlled.I'll share some of my experience.Prototrak: Very easy to program and does have the benefit of you can learn it in a month.Downside is that when you turn the control off, you have to re set every single tool and can't do multiple work coordinate systems.Centroid Intercon: Definite step above Prototrak and you can do multiple WCS and have a saved tool library that inly changes when you remove that tool from that holder. And, Centroid controls can run straight G code with MDI and whatnot.I've heard good things about Mazak, but have never run them.Lastly, I've been a manual machinist a majority of my career since manual machining works better for repair work. Learned some CNC along the way and found myself where I am at now. The biggest thing is having someone that wants to learn. I've spent countless hours in my free time learning what little I know about CNC.Where I'm at now, I'm The Prince of Prototrak, lol. I want to run real stuff, but since I'm one of two guys that know Prototrak inside and out, I keep getting all the work for those mills and lathes. Other guy is damn near handcuffed to his HAAS mill these days, lolI scored 30 lb of aluminum and one 20lb steel part.Those igus bushings kits! For some reason one day like 50 of them showed up at my workAmong other goodies, I got about 60lbs in machined parts today as many companies were just chucking their parts they were making during the eventThat is cheating I only got 4 bottles of tap magic, how did you get 6?My boss gave me his samples. He knew they were going to my home shop.I honestly never understood this part of going around shows. I see grown ass men lugging around loot bags filled with mostly just branded garbage, reminiscent of a shopoholic running in between clothing stores in a mall. Tap Magic and the T-slot scraper seem to be the only useful things on the table. 😄The Venn diagram of machinists, autism and hoarding may aswell be a circleCouldn't get any more pens??I am keeping just a handful of them. Rest are going to work so the pen thieves there will leave my good ones alone.... Never get to go but I went to SHOT show onceThey need to start making promotional 10mm socketsI don’t see any of those Kitamura shaped mints.Literally the only thing I took.“Stuff We All Get”Michael Scottnice to see the Teco t-slot cleaner, as with most tools in my shop, I thought it to be a relic of yore!Man all I got at my last tradeshow was some heidenhain jellybeans Jfc. That's a lot of walking.My watch/phone tracked my steps. Approx 35 miles across 4 days.What was the best swag there?wasn't all that impressed this year with the show. I wonder how many more years they will do itTry threading from inside out, pulls chips out.Unfortunately, I can't change the direction of the spindles so I would be making a LH thread. It's a limitation with this machine that the spindles are not independently controlled.No way to leave some material on the bore to final finish after thread?Rough bore Fin bore -0.1mm Thread Fin bore Spring pass threadThat's essentially my plan. However, we sometimes have issues when we do our finish pass that a chip gets in-between the tool and the workpiece and it leaves a bad finish. I'm trying to direct the chips away from the critical surface to help prevent that.Not sure if this is the way to go. I’d look at coolant first. Are you getting enough coolant into the bore to flush the chips. Is the bore big enough to allow the chips to evacuate. Have you tried using air and coolant (different lines) to flush the chips. I’ve don’t a modified indeed before and what I can say is anything that has you using the cutting side of your insert to slide into the cut will destroy the tool life of that insert, the standard modified infeed has shown (in all my cases) to have the least tool pressure as well.I'm trying to see if I can get more coolant down into the bore too. However, I'm trying to do everything that I can to help the machine out.We use modified flank indeed already on this machine so I'm not too concerned with it affecting tool life. I'm trying to see if I can get the chip to form on the back cutting edge instead of the front to possibly push the chip closer to the front of the bore instead of the rear to better keep it away from the critical surface.Did you make a back up? If not, you'll probably be buying one from the machine tool manufacturer.No we got the machine used and it was our fault for not backing it upAh. Contact the manufacturer and ask real nice if they can send a back up.Unless the hard drive die(which I’ve had had happen). Look in the backups folder and see if you’ve got an archive you can use?If it's anything like the Siemens 840c then I feel your pain. It's the only Siemens I've run bit it is hands down the worse control I've ever had the displeasure to have to deal with. We've actually considered retrofitting the machine tool with a completely different brand control.I have an X7. See if you can get a manual for the machine mine did not come with one. I think they are working on getting them sorted but not sure if they are published yet. Sounds like your OK with doing any work on them yourself and you should be since Syil doen't have a very robust dealer or service network yet. Yes they can get you parts but they are probably coming from Taiwan so if you need something tomorrow you might be out of luck. As long as your aware of those limitations I have been very impressed with my X7 and have heard mostly positive things from those with X11's. If you don't have one you should get a facebook account and join the Syil owners group since it seams most of the peer to peer trouble shooting starts there.Cheers for that mate. I don't think we'll be needing a manual as the machines are going to be with Siemens 828D controller and that's our bread and butter. I will look that Facebook group tho. Thanks for the feedbackWhat's the HP rating on the spindle?On the XYZ it's 20hp, 8k rpm. On the syil it's 25hp with 12k rpmI am getting my G&L 48" VTL 2 channel machine retrofitted with an 840D controller. I just read through the ShopTurn and ISO programming manuals and the Operating as well. I have the PDFs on my computer at work and will send them tomorrow. PM me your contact information and I'll respond tomorrow morning.DMG is very helpful in regard to manuals, at least in my country. If they have a digital copy they mail it to you if you ask for it.Otherwise Siemens manuals are available from Siemens online. They can go pretty deep but they are available.In the controller you can use the help function to answer a lot of questions. Usually all G functions have documentation attached to them that way. M functions varyDifferent machine, but this has happened to one of my mitsubishi-controlled machines recently. Was a stuck contactor that the safety system trips to power up hydraulics/pumps/etc. I guess it's normally wired back into the safety circuit so it can't be tripped twice without the safety circuit de-energizing - so when it was stuck on it held the safety circuit in a mode that wouldn't arm. It had the appearance of e-stop being on but no controller message indicating what's causing the e-stop.Had the exact same issue with a DMG machine with Heidenhain control. Was also a stuck contactor.It's been a year since I've worked with one but there should be button combo to reset it. I think the over ride on right hand side of controller and the reset button. Worked on our nlx 2000 and nlx 2500.Currently on an NLX2500 is this combo essentially the "fuck you do what I say" button? My one has the most tempernental bar feeder in existence and it'll lock me out from jogging quite often, I'm damn tired of having to power cycle the whole thingUsually it’s the contact or on the back of the estop button. Should be 4 bolts on the bottom of the control. One in each corner. Then the whole panel will lift out on a hinge. You’ll see a little square block on the back of the E-stop button. You can just pull it off. Push it back on and see if it’s fixed.Sparkie in a previous life. When this happened we would go to the supply house and get panel clip nuts. The panel really only has 2-3 threads so if they get messed up you really don't have much to repair. Id also advise not reusing the screw.I did start by purchase a complete, new set of the correct panel trim screws for this Siemens panel.We have a great electrical supply house based in metro OKC, I’ll specifically ask them on Monday regarding the panel “clip nuts” (what I was calling “extruded U nut”.)It’s strange that the neither parts house nor Siemens support offered anything to work with this thread. They would only say that it’s “proprietary” …most people drill, tap and replace with a standard thread.Do you know for sure whether the supply house - or anyone else will have this non-standard, “triple start” thread?As an electrician, I would:Tap out to a 1/4-20. I have those on the truck. Round head, slot & #3 PhillipsSome type of clip nut would work? Some commercial panel come with clip nuts. These panels have a much wider lip to them, usually.I don't know how thick a rivenut is. Those original screws are self threading in the panel. Install rivenut, force screw in ? Or install rivenut, tap to a 10-32, then force in the screw?(I know, I know, not Mr Ten Thousands Precise Machinist .! 🤣🤣🤣🤣)honestly, i am not sure why the electric industry does nt convert to using cage mount screws like these (https://www.amazon.com/Washers-Cabinet-Shelves-Routers-Self-Locking/dp/B0C77RFM5Q)should you be able to strip it out, its like a 30 sec job to swap with a new cage nut.I have to ask, why the fixation with triple start? Is this an antique that needs to be restored a particular way?Any single start screw and clips would work.Everyone keeps suggesting the same things he said he doesn't want to do 🤣 His reasoning is a little OCD, but maybe he treats his electrical panel like he treats his car? ShrugRivnuts, if practical, and move on with lifeYeah that's what i would do. Rivnuts are an upgrade.Drill it out and tap new threads for a larger size. Or somehow adhere a nut to the back of the steel so it still holds.You want the BEST solution that perfectly preserves the original TRIPLE START screws? Pay a machinist to make a custom insert/nut with the triple start thread. Be ready to shell out $$$$ for that triple start thread tap. No engineering drawing? That costs extra too.Or maybe it's time to start being realistic and buy a normal set of truss head screws and clip nuts like everyone is already saying.The NT and NTX both have a MORI MAPPS controller, which is on top of a Mitsubishi Fanuc back end. The CTX comes with a Siemens 840D.They are quite a bit more complex than 5 axis milling. On lower turret machines you are basically combining a sub spindle lathe and a 5 axis mill.It's just a CNC machine though. Most of the magic happens when you program it (hopefully offline). If you take the operation one step at a time, it's not so bad. If you are comfortable with turning and multi axis milling, you will be just fine.What controllers do Mori's use?It's no more difficult than any other 5 axis machine either? You just gotta know the controller.I've spent the majority of my career running Haas controls with a little Fanuc here and there. We just got this machine a couple weeks ago and it has been a learning curve. After our engineer mentioned that Mazatrol ran on top of Windows 98, I knew what had to be done. Found the games folder and called the whole shop over for a good hour or two of laughter. Morale has been at rock bottom lately so it was great to see the guys get a chuckle at something again.Okay but when are you going to get it to run DOOM?Dudeous Maximus!!A decent wage always boosts my morale lmaoMoraleI trick I learned to keep the Nexus alive is to create a bootable memory stick and boot a scan disk and defrag tool. I saved several hard drives with the one I had. The games are always a hit! We would play mine sweeper during long cycle times lolI opened WordPad once and full screened it and typed FUCK YOU DAVE in 72pt font and left it for the boomer on first. He had to get the supervisor to close it because he couldn't figure out how to get back to the mazatrol app. Had a good laugh about that.Man, it always wigs me out to see Windows on a controller. We had one machine with Win98. There's nothing so confidence-inspiring as getting a BSoD on your screen. I wish these things would all run a real-time Linux distro.you shouldn't have told anyone, just sit there for most of the shift focused on the control panel, laybe sometimes blast something in the machine with air and maybe mount and unmount a setup block maybe measure something look like you're setting up or manually programmingBy the way, the guy who ported Space Cadet to windows is on youtube. Dave Plummer. He has some really interesting videos.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ThxdvEajK8g&t=21sAnd here is one where he tries to make a 1500hp twin turbo under $1500.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xc1SqRaKv1gThats exactly the same model machine that i run now. Although it has windows 95 i think. I'll try to find the games folder next week when i have time.Pangaea was the bestDamn, now I gotta see if the XP powered laser I run has it.Worked with a guy who brought in movies on a flash drive and played them on our Mazak matrix controls that run on XP. He had to install a codec pack into windows media player. It was pretty funny.How do you protect keyboard like that?Thank God this guy doesn't have long nails, but just looking at this keyboard, really really makes me scared afNails won't do anything to that keyboard. They usually last for years.Yeah, all the guys I've ever worked with had low morals too. Bunch'a fuckin scumbags.I wonder if I could do that with the mazatrol on my mazak fiber laser III 10KW laser machine?Epic pinball?OMG this is my first CNC i ever useSiemens control? Well so much for it being useful. Siemens controls are a fucking nightmare to use for multi axis work. Much prefer the heidenhain.Very cool!I got to see a lathe for submarine shafts at one point. You rode (there was an actual chair) on the carriage and the chips were larger than much of our starting stock. That was before cloud storage of cell pics unfortunately.Thank you!Hahaha monster chips! Two ppl to shovel lolI loved the sound this machine made under heavy load! I’ll never forget it! 👊Cheers 🍻How long it it take to make it?This took roughly 250 hours mill and lathe 👊whatever you got paid for that it was not enough 😂That looks like a beautiful shaft, babe.🥰 lolAs a lathe guy, I'm impressed. Nice work! 😉My man! Thank you!What sort of tolerances do you have to hold on stuff this size? I only really turn up to a metre and a half and have about a 300mm section that's +0/-0.015 The rest of it is 0.05 (All metric)Siemens may be able to point you in the right direction. Give em a call.I’d just teach it off the face if no pre-setter or use a light up height offset gauge.What screen does that offset button take you to? Right under the yellow input button. That seems like the way to do it?Edited for clarityPut it in jog, at the bottom their should be a measure tool button, you might need to arrow across, and then 2 buttons come up for measure tool, automatic or Manual. Select Manual and it'll bring up the screen where you an input your z value and the button that does it is "measure tool", it might ask you to confirm it or have to press it twice. Hope this helpsGildemeister ? I used to work on these 🙂Edit: oh I can see now I worked with a fanuc. What do you need to know mate ?https://youtu.be/tKB_hF75SX4Press the jog button to the right of the emegency stop, there should be a measure tool option on screen on the bottom horizontal softkeys, after that choose between length/diameter auto or manual on the vertical right hand soft keysEdit If you’re setting up a new tool in the library its a slightly different procedureThanks to everyone who replied i was able to figure it out I ended up putting the machine in jog to touch the tool to the face then I had to go into the offset page and found a soft key on the horizontal row all the way to the right that was called tool compensation (or something close to that) and that was apparently what I needed. It’s a strange control at least compared to what I’m used to and I’m excited to learn more about it because it’s a very capable machine.UMC750 or DMU50dont be a pussyI always say I hate to fail for lack of boldness.I mean, I need a Heller, right? BOOMKern Micro HD+ 😉Why no syil? It would fit your needs beautifully.Same. Syil seems great for the money. Boom baby uhhhh!Personally, I think the Hurco VM10i is a way better deal than the Haas. Despite having only a 6'x8' footprint, it's got as much travel and table space as a VF2.Beyond that, it feeds twice as fast as the Haas , has 50% more RPM and more rigid too. It's more accurate, cuts rounder holes, leaves a better surface finish and it holds its resale value significantly better than Haas. Also, it's just a good looking machine.It comes standard with a 24 tool drum while the Haas has a 20 tool carousel which changes tools maybe half as fast.Also, you can set tool heights by simply pressing a button instead of manually adding your tool height to the machine height at the risk of typing the wrong number by mistake. And with the Hurco, you can save 100 tool offsets and have a whole cart of dialed in standardized tools that are ready to go..All this for the same list price as the VF1Only real downside is that it's 3 phase, but you can always buy a phase converter and have an electrician set it up for under $2,500.The Haas TL-1 is a value buy if you add a nice indexing tool changer like Dorian. I dont like the newer ones with the electronic handwheels but I am sure they are also good machines.. I still like to feel the part thru the handwheels when needed.We have a TL-1, TL-2, and TL-3. All of them roughly 2011 or 2012 versions. All bought new. All have been faithful machines with no issues at all. Put a high quality 6 jaw chuck on yours if you can. You will wonder how you ever got by without one.It's also hard to beat the Haas mills in value for money spent. You might be able to get them as single phase machines or you may be able to add a 3 phase service to to your shop. We have a few of the larger ones and did have a TM-1 for a few years. It was a single phase machine and ran good but without a cabinet it was always making a mess so we sold it.Hass's mini mill doesn't come with rigid tapping, or a 10k spindle, which puts the mini mill at around $46k with those options. Considering that both the Super Mini and the Tormach come with those standard and are the same price or cheaper, the Haas mini mill is just not worth it if a 10k spindle is important to you.The Tormach 1500MX is $42k if you want an ATC and flood coolant (which you do). At that point I think the Super Mini is the better machine and in the same price ballpark. Bigger taper, bigger ATC, more powerful spindle, so specs wise it's hardly a contest.My work runs 2 VF2s and a Doosan Lynx off 200A single phase in, with an inverter to 3-phase. I don't think that a mini mill will have trouble on 100A with an inverter.Also look the brand "Smart Machine Tool", they have a "Smart Mini" machine that has a CAT40 spindle with 24 tools, rigid tapping, 12,000 RPM spindle, and a new Fanuc controller, for $50,000.I saw these at IMTS and they sound good cutting steel.Any real world experiences running 15-20HP machines with converters off 50-100A single-phase circuits?Yes — get a PhasePerfect digital phase converter. Work great, very quiet, very little maintenance required.Any other machines/makers I've overlooked and should take a look at?I have a Brother S500X1 with a 4th — it's fantastic. Extremely reliable, very fast rapids. The 16K dual-contact spindle is a real sweet spot in machining ability and flexibility.My issue with a phase converter is that all the specs I see say I’ll need 150-200A just for the converter. I don’t have that much power to spare. If I could get away with an undersized converter since I’ll probably never take more than a 5HP cut (intentionally at least!) then that’s fine. But that’s the question nobody’s answered yet. Let me guide you...Siemens will support you. I contact them fairly regularly for questions as well.Create a support request.https://support.industry.siemens.com/cs/my?lc=en-WWGuess I need to change my name to mori guy. This is our second dmu50 with automation. We are waiting on the 40 pallet ph cell to show up on this guy. Main machine landed todayNice machine buddy. Repost when you get the 40 pallet pool system.May i ask why didnt you go with a matsuura instead.Is the price range much different?My work has one of these! It feels like it is from the future.Those are nice!I love dmg. We have a 635 and a 835. Great machines.I'm looking forward to getting into some 5 axis machining soon. We have a second hand machine on the water right now. So not longI see you opted for the control with a physical keyboard, wise move haha*Cry’s in CYCLE800Nice! Have you had much experience with Siemens? I’ve always been Heidenhain.I love DMGs we’ve got a 2 CMX50s, 1 CMX70 and we’ve got Duoblock 100 FD coming later this year.That thing looks like a spaceshipThese new ones look like Space Age machines.Wow, your spoilt. It’s even got the spinny window thing, I use doosans and I’m pretty much machining blind all the timeSeems like a great way to make some really expensive mistakesHope you get better service from them than we did.....Nice machine! We have the CMX50 and are happy with it. The spinning window is an option I didn’t know existed.Sexy beasthttps://imgur.com/gallery/rBw5Jry this is the other one from 2 years ago. So far been bulletproofThose are great machines, we have a dmu75 that kills it. I don’t run it but I see what it produces and it’s always been reliable.always wondered if you get like some goodies with a machine like this? some dmg candy or sth like that? :DWe got a hat that’s lit af lit af hatFigured it out, the G54 was somehow not activatedThat's pretty nifty. We have some grinders with fagor on em. Not a terrible control but far from great. 20k spindle would make this a useful little machine.We have two lathes made in Soviet Russia that were converted from original magnetic tape (like the one in radios) to Fagor control.had a few lathes with Fagor controls. awkward to learn their ways to code but it generally works ok. not as easy as Mits or Fanuc to manually type in the program but it eventually gets it done.That will fit on my workbench!😍get rid of the old control and fit a new one. my company does these retrofits.What brand of controller do you replace those with?I absolutely love Fagor controllers. You're in for a treat if everything is working.I spent few years on a fagor mill. I guess it's alright for simple stuff but anything even a little complex was so awkward to program... I honestly had a bad time.Fagor controls are straight forward and easy enough. That's an awesome machine if it's working. Best for prototyping, you'd need something more brutal for production. Welcome to the rabbit hole of cnc randomness...My intent is to use it for my own personal needs/hobby. It doesn't take much space and the 5 axis is surely interesting. I even got a small Italian CNC lathe with it!We had a problem with fagor lathe. Where it wouldn't see any usb that is larger than 4gb and if the file names are not 6 numbers it wouldn't detect anything. Nobody had a post for it as it was only used for conversational programmingsounds like a quirk of fat32 partition schemeGot some time to look at the machine today... Battery is dead so all params went back to default... Gotta do my homework now! Controller is a Fagor 8050M.Anyway, the machine has rotary encoders on both U & W axis (rotary). X, Y & Z are linear scales. Any reason to use scales vs rotary encoders?Fagor!!??? 🫨Yeah Fagor 8050MInternet is you’re friendSeems like some AIM module might be broken / bad connections or it might be possible a connection came loose ?Happens quite often when a machine goes to different factory a part starts malfunctioning . I see it allot, i think it might happen because the machine is quite often always powered on en when turned of for an extended period of time some things can break like capacitorshttps://support.industry.siemens.com/forum/WW/en/posts/error-206500-infeed-line-synchronization-not-possible-in-sinumeric-840dsl-sinamics/135913Otherwise just contact siemens / dmg moriAs a guy that has been a production machinist, and a tooling salesman, one thing I find as a constant. A clean shop is a successful shop, if you are keeping things clean and organized on the floor, there is no reason to doubt that philosophy is not consistent from bottom to top. Good utilization of time, space, capitol investments, lead me to believe you are thorough in all aspects. First impressions are huge, if I had a project or a piece of equipment to sell and walked into this shop, I would be confident I made a good choice. Many will say otherwise, and maybe this shot is a one off. I have been around enough to know pride and professionalism and wish you all the best and continued success.We always try and keep it nice and tidy.As someone who just started a new job at a job shop: thanks for this insight. The place I just started at looks like someone threw a grenade in it. I'm trying to clean it up but everything you said about first impressions is 100% true. I almost walked out if it wasn't for the pay and the amazing attitude of everyone there.Hope we can get half as clean as OP's shop.Best of luck to you, OP!Very cool. My wife and I are starting our shop right now and this is great to see.That’s awesome, best of luck to y’all!No better advertising than the IG pages I’ve seen with their girlfriend running machines, just a flood of questionable comments lol.Good luck man. You will not regret it.A see a fancy controller back there, what machine is that?I Got 3 new Dmg moris with Siemens 840dAwesome, it looks like you've gotten yourself nicely set up.How does one even go about starting something up? I've been a machinist or 10 years now, I'm 30 and want to take the leap but I'm so nervous.This is awesome.That colour green looks familiar? That a Mori Seiki? SL-25?How do you like the 840D controllers?Its an Okuma lc30.I love tre 840D. Been using them for the last 10 years mostly and I would always go with it if possible.Well done Bro!!!!! Keep going!!!!Congrats dude! It's tough and taxing. Good on you.The guy on the left is using magicMy goal in life as a young tradesmen is to work my way to a shop of my ownIf you don’t mind me asking, how did you find customers? Were prices an issue starting out?If you ever end up doing any sheet metal fabrication and need some drawings made send me a message.Thanks mate - we have a lot of fab shops around that does all our laser and sheet work. 👍Where are you located? Do you do one-off parts?Its a DMG Gildemeister CTX 410 equipped with Breuning IRCO ILS-RBK barfeeder able to feed bars from Ø10-Ø65mm I can swap between a chuck and collet(collet accuracy about 0.01mm runout) Collet range from Ø8mm-Ø65mm Max rpm 5000 Live tooling max rpm 4000 Haidenhein OSI have the same machine, but without barfeeder, live tools and collet chuck and with siemens control.Nice setup!Thanks 😁Super nice work cart setup, so organized.Thanks, after a lot of efford put in to asking my boss for proper tools i finally have all the things i needwhy use heat shrink tool holders on a lathe? are they better than a normal collet chuck?This way i could use through coolant on a small dia drill increasing tool life and cut quality though for this setup i needed another toolholder with through coolant so thats why i used it hereI miss working in a clean shop 😔That's the first lathe I think I've seen with a Heidenhain controlMooi masjientje! Volgens mij komde gei uit Brabant!Neuj ik nieAh ok!Roughed and finished on a DMG 75 monoblockLooks like a section of runner for a mold. Nice fixture! It's going to be fun for the fitters to blue that.Should be able to fit the majority of that in the mill wouldn't be too bad.Very nice, what material is that?Steel, 1.2343ESUThe look very pretty. But are they in spec? :PCAM?Yes, Siemens NX12Did you cut them out of a block and then wire EDM them off? That's how I've done stuff like this beforeYes that’s right, one side is EDM wired and the other sides are milledLooks alien stuffThat irregular spline bottom slot looks interesting, wish I could do work like that 😒Damn looks very nice! What material is it ?Thank you, it’s Steel, 1.2343ESUwhat material ? pretty nice.Steel, 1.2343ESUMake sure that an axis mirroring G code isn't active. On some controls it's G51, others G100/101, on some brands it may even be an M code.There weren’t any extraneous G codes activated. Also it was only happening in the x axis, y and z were fine. I turned the machine off and on again and it didn’t fix it. I let it sit for a few minutes without changing anything and it started working right again. German machines are “quirky” to say the least.I think you might have better luck on the practical machinist website. Or even just typing "practical machinist x probes in wrong direction" into Google.If you're using the "Measure Edge" probing cycle you can change the direction of travel. On the control it's abbreviated as "Meas.direct." and you'll see either a "+" or "-" next to it which will indicate the direction of probe travel.Yeah we tried that, we switched it back and forth several times and it went the opposite way every time. I should have included a video or images.Have you made sure to clear CYCLE800 and put the C axis at zero? (Turn off swivel completely and look at machine coordinates of your rotaries)?Not everyone is cut out to be a machinist.And among those cut out for it, not everyone can be a top rate machinist either.True, and that's not a flaw. He should be looking for a job that he can be successful at.Additionally, training time is a finite resource, so he is taking the place of someone that can do it and just needs an opportunity.Ya attitudes are a huge factor. I'll train a person for ages if they are making an effort and have a good attitude. It sounds like they are bringing down morale which makes everyone's job harder.I do have infinite patience for most training but this guy has found a way to try me. I've trained some people who really struggled but they did understand basics pretty easily and the higher level stuff is where they struggled.This guy just isn't getting it or doesn't care. I can't decide what. I spent a few days having him doing very basic programming in a converstional control. Basically being able to identify dimensions on a print and type them in. I found it helps a lot of people process print reading easier. He seemed like he had it after a couple days then come the next week absolutely lost all of it.I don't want to fuck someone out of an opportunity but at the same time I can't express some of the shit he is fucking up has the potential to hurt or kill him. If you eject a big ass part it can go through that window. You'll be a corpse before your body hits the ground.I have a standard that I work to, and I maintain it above company expectations. I don't expect him to reach it, but knowing a drill has to spin clockwise is pretty important and it was lost on him.You are pretty much describing the point where you say: fuck it, this dude is not worth an effort.If I see an effort to learn from apprentice I will explain/show things as many times as needed.If attitude is shit and he does not care why waste your time?If he is not grasping the basics, then you need to start back with the basics. Continue to stress the basics until it clicks with him, and then you can move on to the next subject. If he can not read a print and check OD/ID, then why do you even have him in front of a machine? While there is certainly more going on than what you shared with reddit, it sounds like he is getting pushed faster than he should be.Here are a few tips I use when teaching someone:Always be consistent and use simple words/terminology. Start with a simple vocabulary and have the student "use" the words by having them perform an action(ex. Tramming a vice or tool)Do not expect them to understand the first time you explain something. The student has to reach their own conclusion before they understand a concept or an action. This is really where patience comes into play because it is going to be frustrating when the student is not seeing what is in front of them. DO NOT UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES LET THE STUDENT SEE YOUR FRUSTRATION.Do not move on from a subject until the student demonstrates they understand the subject. Once they understand what they are doing, reinforce what they learned by presenting them a problem that is solved by using the subject. Help to build their confidence in their learning.Always refer back to the basics when you reach milestones with the student. It will reinforce what they learned before and help them keep a consistent process flow. It will help them with learning new things in the future, and it is a good test to see if they understand what you are teaching.When you feel the student has sufficient knowledge/understanding, test them and allow them to fail if needed. If they fail, walk them through the process from the very beginning.Remember, you are a part of the process. Provide honest feedback without personal judgment. We all learned at one point, and usually, they will not learn the same way you did. If a student feels like you are not invested in them, they will not ask questions or seek honest feedback from you. Patience, patience, patience.you have a manager in the making, of courseI'm an apprentice who was pretty hard to teach and took his time to learn. I never machined before but I think I showed a ton of effort and interest. My teacher made me feel stupid for most of the time and I was extremely stressed when working. But then whenever he or someone else praised me for my work, interest, effort etc. I learned way more things and way more easily. Now even my boss told me that it was pretty hard with me in the beginning but now they're happy that I'm there and even my teacher told me he knows that I'll be better than other more experienced machinnists there.Maybe try praising him for every little success he makes. If he asks questions praise him for it. If that's even possible of course. Maybe he's just straight up stupid and has no interest in machining either.Effort and good attitude. If they listen and actively work to correct things you have corrected them on/taught them to do a certain way, and there is improvement. Not repeating the same mistakes again and again, learning from previous mistakes. That is something you can build from. My area Machinist is a one year college course, and another year for CNC. It is extremely rare here to walk in off the street and become a Machinist due to so much training.I had a guy a few years ago that was really good at answering my questions when I asked, "do you understand?"{in narrator voice} He did not understand.He left the shop only after some personal issues caused him to miss work a bunch, and it became obvious that we were better off without him.I would have been better off to fire him sooner.I consider machinists as the shields that guard the realms of manufacturing. And that guy needs be thrown over the walls.Some people do take longer to pick things up but are super solid once they do. These people are usually harder on themselves than you’d ever be in frustration of not being a “natural”. That’s not what this is. You and management are at least implicated morally if he gets hurt or causes someone else to get hurt. Cut him loose.Community college machining instructor here - I'm guessing this apprentice has some learning disabilities. I'm wondering if he's had accommodations during his schooling.You might want to inquire about that, just be careful as I'm not sure what kind of laws are involved here. If I suspect a student has a learning disability I'm not allowed to ask them about it.That said, we've all been around long enough to know if someone doesn't have what it takes. You may want to have a discussion about finding a more suitable career at some point.I'd say fuck it.I have trained a fair few people in the past, even during the time i was in all sorts of trainings.Currently training a few very young students, one with a good background and he picks it up very quick (around the same speed as how i learned), and few others you need to be more patient with as they are even younger and have almost little to no background... but they do learn but bit slower.I have also had guys that where older then me by not much and a lot older (and some that had personal issues but when asked they denied it so you couldn't understand them) that just took so much energy out of one or more people, and keep surprising others with shit that happened. Nah just leave it be, it's sometimes sad but it just drains you so out and you cannot look out for everyone everytime.Good thing is that if they hire fresh blood i can get the call if they fit us or not (as i have to train them), are good learners and trustworthy.Edit: ps, shit attitudes are a no go with me or at the shop. We have set up a good club and don't want to get the flow of it disturbed with bad behaviour.How young is he? Was he perhaps pushed into this trade by someone else, despite not really wanting to be a machinist? Or is it possible that has just lost interest, but doesn’t know what else to do? Might be worth asking him things like this. Sounds to me like his heart just isn’t in it. If he’s been at it as long as you said, he’d be impressively dense to not have picked up on the skills you’ve detailed. I hate to parrot this phrase, but, “quiet quitting” IS a real thing. I’ve watched guys do it. They basically just try to be the most worthless they can, in hopes of getting fired rather than just quitting.Im a teacher on a post-highschool workshop. At this point in their career, they still must go to school (age 15/16). They can choose whatever the want to be, and to what school they want to go. Once in a while, i get a student that really doesn't understand what is going on in a workshop, and why he is there.You could ask about his motivation, why does he want to be a machinist? If the motivation is rubbish, he is not worth the time to try and make him a machinist and advice him to seek another trade. We give these students time during school to find it out.My timespan is half a year. You kept your calm quite well!I’m a machinist, trained apprentices on manual machines then a fitting floor. Now I’m a manufacturing teacher at a high school. You are describing a student that could care less about this.Have a conversation with him and ask if this is something he actually wants to do and if so he has to make an effort to learn and study on his own. I’m sorry it’s so time consuming to teach someone on the job with millions in machinery. He needs to be going home and thinking about his job and how he can improve. Start writing in a book what he is learning and detailed notes that he can review in the first 15 min of work or before work to refresh his memory.He needs to be studying his work, when I was an apprentice my company lived by the sink and swim mentality, you got shown once and then sent on your way. Mistakes were forgiven but the company kept a detailed log of what you got trained on so naturally I wrote everything down when I had the chance.If you have a manual machine kicking around it would probably help to turn pins and bushings (simple prints) then advance to a knee mill then cnc. If he won’t keep notes or a log and review them everyday I’d get ready to let him go because he’s clearly not interested in machining and will just be a liability. I worked with one, he’s still at the shop I was and still useless and crashing machinesDon’t just tell him what to do, tell him why also. Put him in position to succeed and gain some confidence.I have never had an apprentice who didn't understand how a drill cuts...fuck him off.ahem swiss machine bar loaders... Everything is covered in oil in swiss. Yet LNS and FMB are like "you get a touch screen! And you get a touch screen! Everybody gets a touch screeeeeeeeenI ran a huge Sunnen hone with a touch screen. Not only did the oil wreck it, but even using a clean stylus didn't help... That thing blew goats for food stamps.Seriously. Let me go take off my gloves to load another bar. Time isn't a concern or anything.This sounds like a MAPPS V issue. It’s the lower panel that really sucks.The Siemens and Heidenhain both have physical keyboards, and just use the better touch screen up top.Also, Okuma has been using touchscreens with physical buttons underneath for about 20 years with no issue.On that stupid MAPPS version of the CELOS, they use that bottom membrane as a cost savings. It’s a lot easier to add and configure digital buttons than it is hard keys.I love okumas touch screen control panels. Everything just worksMy pet peeve is this:Forget about touch screens being a pain. My headache is the membrane keys on the cheaper controls like Prototrak likes to use. Give me real keys that I can feel and know I pressed.Prototrak has taught me that hard way about input lag. There is nothing worse or embarrassing when that moment happens where you hit the button to turn the spindle on and hit go and the spindle start button doesn't register, but the go button doesMembrane switches are pure evil.You wait till it's all scratched and filthy then you will really love it!!. Its a terrible idea most factories are not clean like F1 they are sweat shops with grubby button pushersMy new haas has a touch screen and i have used it zero times.It’s funny that after they realized that touch screens were a terrible safety issue for many of the same reasons you described, the auto industry just shrugged and said “too bad”. To hear your complaint makes me think that it’s up to the marketing department and or the accountantsWeird, the touchscreen on the Mazak Smooth X is fast and responsive and lets me get through stuff faster than the buttons on the Matrix 2.The touchscreen works well for tool data, but the smooth control still has arrow buttons on the work offsets and macro variables page. The buttons are on the touch screen so they aren't as reliable but they do a decent job of emulating a regular control when the limitations of the touch screen come up. I disagree, and think I can get there just as fast if not faster on the Nexus control, but at least it's not a huge downgrade. The Mori doesn't have those buttons, so you have to manually swipe through pages like a slideshow on your phone. Meaning that the fastest way to find offset P150 is to go to the offsets page, click search, wait for the keyboard to load, type 150, and then hit enter and wait for it to scroll over. I can get to that page in a fraction of the time with the arrows on the Nexus control, and I can do it without looking at my hands. The macro variable pages are even worse, since there's hundreds and hundreds of them and scrolling through to find one you aren't sure about is just a nightmare. Just fixing shit that wasn't broke.The smooth AI is even fasterAnd oily fingers make it dirty really fastRandom factoid: NASA still refuses to use touch screens in anything that gets flown because they are still not good enough for them. Things like reliability, redundancy, ease of repair, blah blah blah.Our Okuma's have touchscreens and they are nice to use, but they also have all the buttons there too. I often hit the buttons instead of the screen if that says anything.SpaceX, on the other hand, uses touch screens extensively. Software can make a huge difference in how responsive they are.Taiwan fabrication machine and bandsaw builders need to hear this. For the love of fuck: HMI touchscreen does not like torched scrap edges, the splatter-heeled vise grip knob or gritty gloves- you know, the things fabricators push buttons with. And they’ll just keep pushing buttons until something happens. Didn’t want 99 pieces of monel slugs? Too bad, the machine thinks you did.stop putting touch screens on CNCs. Every-fucking-thing.FTFYI can hit like 8 buttons on our 635v. And the screen/computer will take about 5 seconds to catch up and display what I've told it.I don't think it's a touch screen issuse . More that they use tech from 1998 to run the controllers.Our machine is about 6 years old and it still has ide atyle hard drive!! I think it's like a Pentium 4 cpu. It's ancient.They make these amazing machines then use stone age computer to control them. Wtf.Don't put touch screens on ANYTHING that isn't handheld. My bought a brand new Toyota and the entire audio/climate control is on this one giant touch screen and its the single most infuriating and poorly conceived system I've ever used in my LIFEThey do this for commercial work as well they test the slump (how wet the mud is), temp and air content.I was just in a shop installing a large Parpas XS and they basically dug a 12 x 14 x 10’ deep swimming pool and filled it with concrete with cooling lines in the concrete so they can thermally condition it once the machine is installed. Crazy - and they have actually installed 3 of them.Actually, concrete samples are taken for every civil and most commercial pours.Source: I did soil and concrete inspections long ago.They take those cylinders and put them in a press and break them and it needs to hit a certain psi depending on the design if they don’t they will come and take cores to test and depending on that the pad could get ripped out and someone is getting fired lolEdit: I once watch the tester put in a piece of rebar that he asked me for not knowing what his plan was and when I asked him why he did that he said fuck the guy who runs the pressthe company I used to install machines for required this. they got sued before I joined. Their guess was the customer went the cheapest route possible for foundations and then bitch about the machine vibrating. After they found that the concrete was subpar and allowed the anchors to move ever so slightly.The company I used to work at bought an infinity table boring mill. Had the hole dug out, pillar supports driven to bedrock, rebar installed, concrete poured. Did a sample post pour of the pit that was made and it came back bad. Whole thing had to be jack hammered out and redone.EDIT: my own English. Geez…You should see the machine they use to test 'em. I've smashed sooooo many of these things.I do they same with epoxy when building golf clubs.I do this with my home brew.If you’re doing it right. If you’re doing it wrong, you take test pieces out AFTER you pour because the cracks started developing right away.Ha, I have one of these little tubes, I keep my coffee beans in it. My buddy worked for a place that did exactly this stuff.From some of the comments here, it seems that it would be a good idea to take a sample at the beginning and end of each batch.And if they fail? Dig everything back up and try again?You got it, don't forget someone gets fired somewhere.He had a 50,000lb 120" x 60" (travel) bridge style cnc machine recently installed. Excavated a big pit and filled with 32mpa cement. Then they core drill 8" diameter holes and once machine is in place they mix and pour a "grout" which is supposed to harden to 50-60mpa around the J Bolt anchors attached to the machine.Guys must have added too much water to make it easy to flow material and not need a shoot. Had to unhook machine remove it from pit, re drill holes and move back + re do everything.Make sure you use a high quality grout and mix correct water. Even 5% too much water drops you 5mpaYaaa, I've got machines on pads that used to be used to pull cars on for paint. Big spenders but congrats on the new machine'sHow do they test it? Compression?I am sure they did this when they installed our Mazak 1850, the thing still moves after nearly 10 years and we constantly have to get it releveled.So those are not full of Siemen?The best explanation I ever read was, If you need the arc to be true, use IJK.If you need the endpoints to be true, use R. Because it fits the arc to the endpoints.Got that from a Acramatic programming book.In my experience R is great for lathe work. On a mill though I will always use IJKI use R when the a corner needs and R, no idea how to calculate what need for IJK. Siemens controller has an option for contour turning, so i just write in that cycle.I'm an Okuma guy, so I imagine even this is a lot different for me, but I use R any time I'm not milling a full circle, then I use I,J.By what I've learned so far it also depends on what controller you are using. Heidenhain Controls as example use so called C (Curve) Commands to program radii while Siemens Sinumeric Controllers use the IJK System.As a 22 year old, you going to be happy to know that the website is even better than the bookYeah, I see no reason to have the book unless you are an old timer that don't know what the internet is. Kinda like the machinist handbookThe library is growing. Today is a good dayLove citizens. They're the HAAS interface of the Swiss world. So easy to use. Get some experience on fanuc interface machines if you can though.Citizen programming is so so so weird compared to everything else.Mitsubishi code is just... eww...Haha it's the type of machine. I'm based in the US.they have almost everything an person could use...Unfortunately they don't ship to Australia....But i use them for step files/solid models of parts.What is McMaster?You both lose jeopardyWhen I started out as an engineer your data book library established your credibility as an engineer. I don't even know where any of them are now.I wish we had something similar in EU :(This isn't the flex it used to be. The Internet has ruined itIt’s not a flex, it’s like being part of a club.Thats mostly true but its still nice to have one.Prepare to go into debtI specifically requested one and got denied.https://cache.industry.siemens.com/dl/files/782/28711782/att_98705/v1/FBU_0510_en.pdfPage 667 will decipher the fault codes if the driver is displaying one or more. Might give a hint as to if it's control logic or an input signal causing a problem. I'd start with any relays upstream or downstream of the relay that triggers the failsafe-check if that one relies on NC contacts that aren't actually closing.Unlikely, but if you find un-original control wires or jumpers, Maybe someone cheated and threw a limit switch/failsafe in series wth a travel limit switch instead of an E-stop and the drive is waiting for acknowledgement and proper motion before it will resume operation.Or a failsafe has been installed to break the hold of a magnetic contactor upstream of the controller instead of to send a stop signal to the controller.No idea what the speed sensing looks like in that machine but if an e stop relay is opening a contactor after the drive, the drive would require restart after fault: "After the controller enable, the motor is stationary"Thanks for this. Going to take a look today, I was skimming through several manuals yesterday but didn't find much to help. I'll take a look through the wiring diagrams to see if there's anything being triggered after the drive requiring a system reboot.Smoking cigarettes helped me at 1st with dealing with stress (wouldn't recommend)Going to the gym after work off the frustration (I do recommend it if you have the time)Now, I just don't care. I've seen people with a lot more experience then me fuck up a hell of a lot more then me and also seen others work slower (I've only been doing this for 7 years now). They'd keep their jobs with no real repercussions. Shit happens that's life, no one is perfect.Also work to live, don't live to work. Once you punch out focus on self improvement or at least doing something you love like hobbies.Also OP it’s one thing to have a strong work ethic which is good, but it’s another thing to stress over a job more than what they’re paying you is worth. Machinists are getting shit pay nowadays, so give your mental health a breather. That’s the least you can do for yourself.I agree on the exercise. I get tired from my job but also really tight and stiff so just moving in a different way feels good and helps me relaxWhen I was new I wasted time not writing stuff down. Now when I fuck up, or the machine doesn’t act like it should, or setting up a part takes longer than it should, I write that stuff down and how I dealt with the issue. Whatever it is writing makes me download it to long term memory storage. Still keep the notebooks obviously to look at.Sometimes you have to make mistakes to learn. Just don’t repeat them. I’ve been machining for 18 years and I still single block and slow down the rapids for the first off. Never assume a fixture, vice or chuck is clocked up or that all the tools your using are sized properly or that their lengths are correct. Measuring equipment is your friend and you can check sizes as your going (safely of course, stop the spindle, TPC mode or equivalent etc). You wanna size a tool for a series of H7 holes? Grab a piece of scrap material (make sure it’s the same material as what your machining) and size it on that, or program the hole smaller, size it, then do the math to make it on size. As an apprentice I used to machine a lot of brass manifolds with NPT or BSP threads in em. Would just grab an off cut and tap that. If it’s too shallow or too deep east to work out the difference using the thread pitch. Just make sure you understand your program, know what you’re doing and read the screen. Position, buffer, remain.Remember that time the gage pin was left in the bore and you pressed cycle start?Everyone's going to make scrap parts, even the oldest guy in the shop, it's part of learning what not to do.I'm an apprentice and what I've found is no one is going to be mad at you for making a mistake if, you tell people about it and ask what could be changed or done differently.You will fuck up. Things will go wrong. Shit happens and that's guaranteed.You can't spell "experience" without "fuck!"Perfect is the enemy of good. It's always easier to look back and think of how you could have done it better.I didn't feel like I completely knew what the fuck I'm doing until about 10 years in.I still duck up after 10+ years. Mit happens. You need to find a solution if you fucked up between customer and your financial department and life will go on. Just don't repeat errors too often!You still duck mit up?If you find a thing that works well write it down.Is your question how to deal with the stress of fucking up or oh do you keep it from happening? The way I read it applies to the latter.What made me better to the point I made very few mistakes anymore was learning to take my time and think twice about something. The old adage, measure twice, cut once, comes to mind. Another old saying that helped me is... If it's fussy, the best way is the quickest, if it isn't fussy, then the quickest way is the best. In other words, it's important to distinguish, when a part has critical dimensions with tight tolerances, then slow down and take your time so you don't do it over, but if it's not critical, then it's ok to speed up and take more risk.All in all, patience is the key to better parts. Hope that helps.I didn't have any strategys. I just had to do the walk of shame to my journeyman while I was an apprentice and tell him what I had done and he would shake his head at me. Give me a tip or 2, then order me new material lol.I found out years later that he kept telling the other owner, but not telling me, that I'm the best apprentice he's ever had and he's surprised I didn't fuck up more. It made me feel really good, he's about to retire too and I'll take his place. I'll miss the guy.There is a story called the cave, the people living in the cave can only see the distorted shadows of the outside world. Someone escaped and saw the world for what it really was but could not convey to the others as he was just one of those distorted shadows to them. This is machining- you think you're shit because you understand what improvements can be made and you strive for them. The real skill is understanding when improvement is needed and when it's okay to acknowledge the shortcomings and move to the next. Perfect is the enemy of good. You need to look at the parts you make and understand how you can improve but also understand when to send it. I make all one offs that are pretty complicated. After 6+years every part I make I am still never truly happy with but they all meet spec and the clients all think they are amazing.I usually try to do coping with an annular cutter if I have the right size, but the boring head will work too. It also gives a nicer finish and better accuracy, but usually that isn't so important if you're just coping for welding.What a cope"He who does nothing makes no mistakes"I found having massive panick attacks and sobbing while staring into the eyes of my coworker worked well...In all seriousness, imposter syndrome is a bitch. The only suggestion is try to learn from mistakes so that you don't repeat them with any version of consistency. Also, as much as possible, learn something every day. I have been in and around manufacturing literally my entire life and I learn something every day. Don't be too down on yourself for being born 20 years later than your coworker.As all the questions. Own your mistakes. Nobody gets good overnight. Move to another job when pay / progression gets stale.Keep your imposter syndrome it will help you to stay sharp. Allow your work to do the talking. Humility and due diligence my friend. And chamfer everything unless it's called for a sharp edge obvs.I use ncviewer.com it’s not the ultra best but it’s free.YouTube has quite a few tutorials about G-Code as well. Haas talks about a bunch of the more common ones and a couple macros. Titans of CNC has 2 or 3 walk through videos of long hand programming, nothing too intricate though.Aside from ncviewer, you can try the simulator from cnc cookbook. You'll get a free trial, and it supports advanced g-codes.Not g code but if you’re interested in Siemens programming the Sinutrain emulator from the Siemens website is excellentThat's good to know! My work has a couple machines with Siemens controllers, I might could work my way into a raise if I learn how to work them.I believe cinco edit shows 3d but it isn’t free.It does.NcViewer.com is free and works ok.Ya you gotta flip It into Edit mode sillyThere is an app called VMC simulator on App Store. I believe it is also available on a desktop.I didn't really try it but the reviews look decent. It is only a couple of dollars. Looks like it's something you're looking for. The lathe version is also available.That's wicked coolWhat does an electro spindle do?Cutting on high RPMMust be one of them fancy full motion heads for this style of machine. Rather cool! Always been curious if you can lay into these things or not? Like do they lock hard in any position so you can fuck on it or do you gotta be gentle?This special one is also for rough milling.There are soft keys to slow rapid moves down to 5% 25% 50 and 100% 5% is painfully slowPerceived rapid speed increases as clearance decreases. We adjust all our machines so the lowest setting is 1% because we do a lot of work where you're missing stuff by .020 or less and everything is an unproven program.I hate Haas for this very reason. Who the fuck designs a control to have identical buttons for overrides that you can't intact with without looking at them? They're rookie machines made by idiots. A simple knob has been functional and useful for this purpose across all other machine tools.But adding knobs would increase the cost of the machine by like $20!And those buttons are way harder for apes to break.I actually rather like the Haas control. Then again it's what I've done all my work on since I started machining about a year and a half ago.They're rookie machines made by idiots.You're probably going to cop a lot of flack for that comment, even though it's 100% accurate.I mean you can turn on hand wheel feed control, then you can control the federate with the wheel, and if you are running in safe mode then feeds and rapids are controlled simultaneously.usually when I start a program, I turn feedrate to 0 and rapids to 5 and watch the distance to go.I do wish you could turn rapids all the way to 0 thoughStill better than a tormachUse single block when your tool first approaches the cut. Drop to 5% rapid and 10% feed overide. Veerify that code makes sense and turn off single block. Now that single block is off, cycle start and engage with the work - if you like it bump the feed back up.It would definitely be nice to have a feedrate override knob but this method doesn't take more than a minute. Typically I only check the first tool unless I'm using tools that don't live in the machine permanently.Not a Haas guy but the feedrate knob on one of my Doosans at work is scrambled, 0% and 100% are correct but everything in between is random numbers so to go from 0 to 100 you have to pass through speeds up to 180%. My workaround for that machine has been to just use single-block and read each line of my program as it comes up that way I know it isn't doing anything crazy. Of course, if you don't know G-code well enough to read it that could still be problematic.Never had to run a haas but I'd find that annoyingNah, the only thing annoying about running a haas is that they’re so simple and shoddily assembled that the machine shop owners expect the minimum wage earning operators to fix them /maintain themWhile the shop owners from an okuma definitely don’t want minimum wagies in their turning wrenchesHaas has feed rate override knobs, it’s above or below the rapid override knobs,Personally I would just edit the GCode if I want a slower feed rate, fuck relying on the machine controllerJust throw in a bunch of M01s and run opt stop and use distance to go as a crutch. Just line by line that gcode, read it before you let that opt stop go you should know exactly what that code is saying before you let it do itLol what?! You put M01's on every line of code? Do you know what single block is? I have to be misunderstanding you.You can't beat a knob, I'll give you that, but the HAAS control allows you to temporarily use your jog handle as a manual 0-999% feed/RPM override (more on that here), on top of that, you can take advantage of their "Dry Run mode" or the new "Safe Run mode" with specifically designed features meant for program testing. I can think of multiple reasons not to buy a HAAS machine, but the control's definitely not one of them. It's packed with useful stuff that most people ignore; make sure you take a look at HAAS' YouTube channel and you'll see for yourself. Over the years I think I've had more problems with FANUC and HEIDENHAIN controls, but I guess I've just been unlucky.Wait. I'm a dummy. Just press the MCS/WCS hard button.It means: Work Offset setting not possible in Machine Coordinate System.You need to specify which WO you want to store current position to! Blue arrow keys down to "Work offset" and center blue key until the WO is highlighted. Input, then cycle start. Now you can use the right side soft keys to store XYZ.Another tip: Press the HELP hard key on alarm screen with relevant alarm highlighted.Thank you I did manage to do it, you’ve confirmed I did the right thing at leastDon't worry about the Haas. They are basically fanuc for dummies.Mazak is different; you won't instantly figure it out without some guidance. Not complicated, but not generic like a haas.Fanuc fucking sucks dick for a modern control.It's like their business model is "let's do the same fucking thing because we're too cheap to make a useful UI."Mazaks are not very user friendly in my opinion. That being said there is no reason an experienced person couldn't mostly learn them in a couple days. Might need a couple things pointed out to them.I'm a fan of Mazak controls.Haas are super user friendly. A person could probably self teach Haas control in a day.I've taught the haas control to people in a matter of hours.Mazak took about a day and a half with the tech on site to become well versed in what we need.We only have HAAS in our shop.My coworker never worked on a HAAS before when he was hired here, and even he could figure out the controller.His first few weeks he was a little slow and had to take extra time to hunt down buttons, but it didn’t take him long at all.It really shouldn’t matter.In my experience, it shouldn't matter if you show interest in wanting to learn them and following through with it. I run a 7-axis Haas and a 5-axis Mazak (both lathes) with no real training at all. The Mazak I find to be great for simple turning operations, but some of the more complex features with live tooling I end up writing out in G-Code instead.In short, I'd say it probably comes down to the shop and what they're looking for. They may have had someone quit or retire without warning and they need to fill that spot, so training may not be an option. But I'd say if they put in some patience, a well rounded machinist should be able to do figure out the basics on their own with or without a brief run-down.It was a short notice deal, guy never came back from vacation. But again it was a Haas, idk.Some signs say the guy might not have been worth working for in long run. But damn that pay would've been nice.It literally doesn't matter what machine or cam software you use. Some machines and controls are better than others and same goes for software but at the end of the day all that matters is you can make parts in tolerance.I got snubbed hard in my job search because I don't know mastercam. Oh well, I see the same place (small 3 man shop) with job postings going up every few months for almost 2 years now. They missed out on me because I didn't know mastercam and looks like it really did them well. On the other hand, I found a shop that taught me enough to be making parts in Mastercam within my first day.This exactly. I've self taught myself Fusion360 for shits causey shop does mostly 2+d work where we the draw tool paths out. Figuring this shit out is a passion, not just a job to me. I was a damn short order cook and came in to a small father son shop and mixed shit up cause I was making improvements in setups, programming efficiency, tool life by running proper speeds and feeds, more efficient fixtures. It's been great learning wise. I may even come across cocky at interviews, but it's because I know this is my shit. I completely accept and acknowledge ignorance and look at it as a way to improve and learn. That last part they don't want to understand.I make less than 20 and I'm programming/ runningy job while setting up and teach the two newest guys what to do. The son deals with all the paperwork bs and some shop work. Father has pretty much retired. The son has no family so I have been told on many occasions that the shop will be mine once he retires. My 14yr old son is on board to get into the shop and learn, and that has immense value, but that's still some years off and again, my wage is shit for all Im capable of.I love this career but I feel incredibly stuck running in place getting nowhere.If you can run a calculator, you can figure out how to operate a machine. Programming, diagnostics are an entirely different can of worms, which can be wildly different based on brand.Tl:dr; brand specfic requirements are retarded. A good machinist doesn't care what fancy name is on his control. A service guy cares a little.It is not your fault, but it is the shop's prerogative as they might not have time for indirect labour & overhead cost associated with training... they want a plug & play crew...In saying that, in my own experience, I've made recommedations resulting in positive staffing outcome even for applicants or candidates with little but relevant experience.After the interview, we walk them trough the shop & let them ask the best & most intelligent questions.. From there you'll know pretty much who is switched-on & interested even without experience...Implementation KSA metrics follows thereafter...once hired as probationaries..It's good to be exposed to as many different controllers as possible, but not necessary. The more you've seen, the easier it gets to learn them.My only prior experience to running a HAAS was operating a CNC wood router, which was pretty much a load and hit go kind of operating.That being said I learned the HAAS machine controller in about a week to the point where I could set-up jobs in about an hour or two and by the first month I was going job to job without supervision. After a couple months I started to be taught on a HURCO 5-axis and that sucker took a good couple weeks before I could press go without someone checking over my offset changes and dry running the program. The Brother and Kittamura at my job scare the daylights out of me, too many buttons.I don’t get the whole control thing. I only work on my own shit and I’ve been able to figure out the three different controls I’ve had. It just seems stupid to me for shops to pass on people for that. If I owned a shop, that’s the last thing I’d care about. I’d just want someone that knows what they are doing. Who cares if they are a little slow for a few weeks to learn a control…Who gives a shit, haas control panel or McDonald’s pay till same shit a paycheck is a paycheckThey’re all similar. At my job, we have Doosan lathes with Fanuc, a Haas lathe, a Haas mill, a Fagor controlled lathe, a fadal with a NXGEN control, and a boring mill with a Heidenhain control. Only one that gives me trouble is the Heidenhain, and that’s only because I haven’t had time to play around with it and figure it out. If you show interest and a basic understanding of how to navigate and run the control, you should be fine.Just learned a Heller with a Siemens, my first Siemens control. Definitely wouldnt be able to jump on that without guidance. Heck even the SMX with fanuc control tool some figuring out because of the dual channels and lower and upper turret.I’ve never had too much trouble switching to different controls although I’ve never worked on a Mazak. I do hate how specific some job ads are on what they want for experience, but I think more often than not it’s just their wish list for the perfect candidate and at the end of the day they’ll take what they can get.Haas and Mazak are both relatively simple to me, started on Okuma and then fanuc. A good machinist is a good machinist once you learn the basics of the controller. I don't see a ton of places that bother with Mazatrol or IGF when Cam software exists at this point.I mean for the most part a good machinist should be able to to adapt rather quickly. Every machine has certain M and g codes that are machine specific but definitely watch out if you get out on an okuma mill or lathe. That G15 and g56 could cause some trouble if you don’t know what your looking for and we’re used to running fanuc/haas for a while.Is it already home? I know for my Mazaks you have to move it off home first to home it.The technician who set up our machine wanted us to do the following when shutting it downsend homemove x,y,z,c so it’s not sitting on reference pointshit e-stop 4)shutdownOnly c is in home position. XYZ will not move at all. I can jog the machine but will not go to reference pointsSiemens or heidenhain control?Siemens control. Are X, Y, and Z already referenced? It will show the little target symbol next to the axis on the reference return menu. On our DMU75, only the C axis actually has to move after a boot up.You also don't have to do anything special when you shut it off. It doesn't care where you park it, or if the E stop has been hit.After referencing, either it runs, or it doesn't. The machine has scales, so it's not like it needs to go hit a limit switch in order to find home on the axis.Turned machine on this morning and still not referencing Z. X,Y,C all have that target symbol next to them. Also I checked all the drive systems and everything has a check next to it except for SPI1_Motor.Just curious, is it assembled by Gildemeister?YesI have had this a couple times, completely random. Heidenhain 2500B with Siemens drives on a Bridgeport VMC1000/22 from 1992). Open up the cabinet an make sure all the displays note a "normal" state when idling (and that they are the same). One of my driver's internals had to be replaced (300 euro, after a 1000 euro search) and it's fixed now. The second driver is on its way out, but sometimes rebooting puts the state back normal, but usually I have to tap the side of the drive (like SOFTLY, don't be a muppet, tap it like you would your (/partner's) balls for a job well done) and that jiggles something so it goes into normal again. Then, on the controller, press and hold the END key for a second or two, reset the power (I have a separate power on button for the pumps) and let the machine do the z/y/x reference.I’ve got a VMC600, and a VMC1000 both with siemens servo drives.It’ll most likely be a servo drive power module failure, get the code off the front and order a refurbed unit or have yours fixed (determine which axis unit has failed first, ie which direction triggers the error)This would be the most logical thing to do. On mine there was a bunch of old (functioning but old and slightly bulged) capacitors and a thyristor or something as well, so if you do one... might as well get them all checked out..Heidenhain like if servos move with no command/consent from control, control gets feedback from scales and at like 10mm error position, it dumps "gross position error" or "grober positionierfehler" together with Estop, so machine doesn't run into axis end stops at full speed and trashes itself.Basically, can be anything, from axis lagging behind the position, the control wants them to be, seized ways that make movement impossible, dirty scales, bad optics on scales, servo amplifier going crazy, bad control, worn out brushes on DC-servo....Basically anything that makes axis not being at position the control wants them to be or error in feedback, that makes control think, the axis has moved, if it didn't.Remember to grind out all the charred circuit board material, when FR4 burns it becomes conductive.Noted.@mods, please consider removing this (no pun intended) post. This is basically an unpaid ad.I apologize, I didn’t intend to do anything wrong. My intention was just to spread word that these are available, as I know most post companies are very high on pricing and they are not proven, and most like to hold them dear to the heart. I couldn’t tell you how many times I’ve wanted post info or help and it wasn’t available. Is there a better way I should try to do this or different place I should post it?Unless I missed something you never said what software these are forSiemens NX and most are also available for Mastercam.Fuck off, scammer.How do you handle the 2 different 5 axis configurations on the T2?We have a post for each. Usually we use AC config and a separate work offset in the rare event we can’t get everything just in AC.LOLYou live in a fantasy world.AFAIK the emco also has atleast a lower turret. And the clx450tc only has the milling head.I worked on both and currently own a clx450tc.I like the fullsize control on the emco more.The milling head on the dmg is more compact.In terms of precision i haven‘t noticed a discrepancy.With the 60 pocket atc i would usually pick the clx but the deal seems unbeatable.Oh I have to say the Emco also comes only with the milling head. It's still nearly double price for the emco.Plus for clx is i don't need that much floor space because the emco has room for the lower turret, which is missing.Tormach control quality are pissed poor, only 1 out of 20 machines were inspected back when we bought our 1100. Tormach is like a company making believe their machining are glorious until you get your hands on it and realize it's full of joke. The controller box is still inside the machine where coolant gets splashed everywhere, last week we had coolant leak that shorted the machine, we have to customized and do major maintenance every week because of bullshit like the caulk sealant that are provided by Tormach.Seeing the new 1100MX still have electrical board inside but door access from behind still gives distrust.2HP is a complete joke if you need to do low RPM with steel, those thing barely have torque at low RPM. Tormach use 60-80$USD main motor on their spîndle on their 15L slant pro and 1100 series. When we have to do electrical maintenance, their VFD controller are so-so.But then Tormach contract through chinese and sell them back at a huge margin, even those collet ER16/ER20 from tormach is aliexpress like quality.That being said I did not use syil machine, but review basically say they are good until you need to do maintenance, it's going to be basically remote support and you will need to troubleshoot by yourself. So if it is a major turn off, then you may consider tormach.Honestly wouldn’t expect a lot of maintanance on a linear way machine like the X7, worse comes to worse you can just replace the rails over time where on a Tormach you have to scrape the dovetails.OP lives in Bulgaria so Id say go with the Syil since it will be import machines either way.I'd say the syil only because I've heard lots of bad shit about tormachs. If there are dealers near you or a shop that has one, see if you can have a look and feel of them in person 1st. Put a dti in the spindle and rest it on the bed or a vise and push on the head as hard as you can and see how much flex there is.I have a Tormach lathe. Don't get me wrong I have had very little issue with it for prototyping and small production runs (up to 100 pcs) but my future expansion plans do not include Tormach. This is just because they are getting a little too close price wise to more capable machines.My uncle just got a Syil x7 after owning a Tormach for a while. Here's a video he did comparing them and will be doing more later https://youtu.be/Jx1M0L5e-wIIf you like replacing spindles grab a TormachYou should be able to just insert an M0 at the location where you want the program to stop. Just be aware if the M0 stop is in the middle of a toolpath you need to also reinput the modal startup codes such as tool length, work offset feedrate and spindle speed as those get cancelled after an M0. This stuff is usually better handled by certain functions in whatever cam software you are using.We talking like at the end of each tool or beginning after tool change, or mid cut?Because each tool should have an M1 optional stop at the beginning of its section of code, then you just turn optional stop on. You can add one at the end of each tool to check it again.Mid cut, was told a guy that worked here before i did knew the process to stop it mid cut. The spindle would come up and go to the door to change inserts then automatically go back to where the program left offSiemens or heidenhain?SiemensArcs will help prevent data starvation.Think it depends on the motion control system. I watched in on depth video from Siemens (their “Mr CNC” YouTube channel), they want points and they want them to at least 6 decimal places. They showed how having more data reduced cycle time as their algorithm had to do less work to correctly calculate splines.I totally see how the notional control system would play a big role in this tho, I remember running a 2006 haas and points running so much slower than arcs. Another point against arcs is that unless your geometry is all true arcs, then arc-fitting will always be just that, softwares best attempt to fit arcs into splines, and although the resulting artifacts will be very small, it could increase the polishing time in the case of molds.It’s an interesting topic, wish I knew more about the guts of motion control systems.One of our engineers brought us a fusion code for some “government work” last night. He wanted to mill a round part with multiple diameters. Didn’t enable smoothening. Didn’t enable multiple depths. Used the smallest cutter we had for roughing with a step over of a thou. No milling in both directions. I was surprised when my supe let him load it into the TM. It was such a long program. I stopped it after 4 hours after the first op lolIs the feature a definable arc? Then it'll get programmed with a G2 or G3.Is it an legitimate spline for a cam surface or similar? Then it gets a point-to-point G1.Nicer controllers/machines with proper use of smoothing and look ahead features, along with the toolpath filtering options available in many CAM softwares, will eliminate the stuttering in point-to-point paths in all but the most extreme examples. In lesser controllers the most strait forward fix is to just turn the feed down, unfortunately.It's never about what you "prefer", it about what the part requires, working within your machine limitations.Depends on the machine and the control. What smoothing algorithms the control uses makes big difference.Have you done any test on your own? I found the Haas I ran at my old job ran smoother and was less jerky with more points.The machine i run now has a Fanic 31 series control on it. Pretty sure that machine would run smooth no matter what.Your right in that it's less data, but it sacrifices accuracy by fitting the curve. In most cases that's fine, but if you have a surface that needs to be clean (mold or cosmetic features) sometimes it's better to use point data. Especially if your machine is equipped with a high speed machining option. Less imperfections.Are we talking about a 30 year old machine controller here?You can starve a 31i with aicc 2 200 block lookahead with the speeds and feeds for a 6mm if you don't use some sort of arc filtering.Depends on the machine. I have a controller that was based on a 90's OS. it needs arc filtering with a large tolerance to keep speeds up but even then still out runs the code on 3D surfaces and splines. My newer machine controller has look ahead to handle incredibly tiny segments with ease, both 2D and 3D so it's filtering tolerance is much tighter.This is an informative post.I always wondered he difference between controllers like Grbl and Faunc.Controllers are treated like a black box without anyone ever explaining the details of the inner workings or what is done with the G Code.Where do I go to learn about how these different controllers process the G Code?I also see Fusion CAM being presented as a step that does not require understanding of machining.In the 3D print world, the Slicer program is the CAM portion of the workflow. Slicers do not implement G2 or G3. I had an 8 X 8 inch tray that was completely grooved with 3/8 inch half arcs that was fed into the printer controller. The trays were printed vertically in a block, 6 at a time. It was all G1 segments and eventually burned up the controller. It was a massive G Code file. The controller software does implement G2, G3.I have a hobby level machine and weld shop and am trying to move up to commercial level.I know a salesman the works for Mori. He used to work for Haas and would sing their praises. When he moved to Mori, he would talk about how much of a warm turd Haas was.Hahaha, I've had the local Haas Salesman agree their equipment is shit in the long run compared to most other brands.He was trying to convince us to ditch our old Kitamura mill for a new Haas until he saw it in action; then his only real benefit he had was the Haas controller is more user friendly than the Fanuc OM controller (which I think everyone can agree on).How do they look at home gamers with clapped out Bridgeports?Like thisWorking in a primarily Haas shop, I couldn't agree more. Coming from a place that ran entirely Maatsura, let me tell you, it was a shock starting there. "What do you mean the spindle is supposed to make that noise?!?! That's not a happy noise!"I've never ran a Matsuura that wasn't built before y2k and are still in service today, and I've seen haases become so unreliable within 2 years.I used to talk shit about our red tigers and others, but they still interpolated as well as our "new" machines.https://i.imgur.com/CnRQNX8.jpgI have both Mori and Haas as well. While no one will argue that Mori is not the better machine, lots of shops don't need that level of machine. My Haas's are doing just fine for what we do. I'd rather the money in my pocket than ponying up for the premium cost of a Mori so I can gloat I have a Mori shop.True but they look coolWhat makes you say that ? Is your DMG running Heidenhein ?Haas makes the best cnc drill press change my mind...oofRecently found out the real price of an NLX 2500/700. I’d rather have the Samsung sl25 bsy I fucked with at my old shop.It’s like comparing a high end Mercedes to a Toyota Camry. They will both get you to work but one costs a lot more and will spend more time in the shop.I would throw our DMG in the parking lot if they would let us write off the million bucks left to depreciate.I've been saying that Haases's are the F150 of the machining world, they're everywhere, they're relatively cheap, you can get them optioned to the gills for way to much money for a work truck, but at the end of the day they're a general work truck.You can find more specialized equipment, you can find faster equipment, you can find hands down all together better equipment. But people buy haases because sometimes all you need is a work truck.Yeah its the same untill you need reliability, speed and accuracy then magically "Mercedes" manages to get you to work while you need to tinker with "toyota"I mean, I really like the Hurco machines we have in our shop. Definitely more so than any Haas I've ran. I've never used a DMG Mori though.Haas peasants RISE UPThe haas super mini mill we have dedicated to just hardmilling small parts screams like a banshee at 15k rpm with the spindle maxed out. Hands down the loudest and most annoying machine I get to listen too.People dressed like that are very often the first ones on the headsman's list when the revolution comes.They are wildly different machines because each has different controls.Can't go wrong with Doosan because of the massive support for it and Fanuc.Haas is also a good starter machine but they are overpriced in the used market.The "Simult. Record" button in your picture is a real-time simulation. However, your machine may not have the license to run it as it is not a standard feature. You can buy a license and put it on your control to enable the feature if you don't have it.https://www.manualslib.com/manual/1486562/Siemens-Sinumerik-840d-Sl.html?page=119Thank I have this and it now shows the tool path but doesn’t show the part. Is this just a tool path that it shows unlike the part and tool paths like MazakI think we have the exact same machine... Why use Siemens control. I think the controls of the Index are betterWhat are index controls?I've never been able to simulate whilst machining on a Siemens mill. Not sure if there's a way around it.I dont think so, we have 6 mills with these controls, none of them can simulate while a program is runningyou might be in swiveling mode. go to mdi and type in "cycle800()" and run the blockThis should work. Otherwise you could achieve the same thing by going to the jog menu and running a blank swivel cycle. On a table/table machine it should be set so that swivels are canceled at reset or M30. If this is a new machine I would make DMG MORI fix it.You are currently stuck in cycle 800 or Traori go to MDI run M30 try again this should fix it ....Is this heidenhain or siemens controller? if this is siemens control then what the other guys said should help, if its heidenhain then you will need to perform a PLANE RESET (in SPEC FCT button), or turn the 3D Rotation off for Manual machining mode. (soft key 3D ROT in manual mode)Hit the cluster of dots in the very top left, go to documents, then open the instruction manual. That should show the G codes and such to turn on all the spindles. Its a modern pdf so it's searchable, and you can click on the page numbers from the index to go straight to them.To jog just hit jog mode and use the wheel like any other machine.Siemens or fanuc?MitsubishiWhere are you located? Colorado!Let me know if you still need anything.Depends on how complex the part geometry is.Esprit is the best of those 4 options, but it isn't a learning curve its a sheer cliff face.I highly recommend PartMaker, and it's what I've seen in 99.9% of swiss turn shops I've been to/worked for.IMO there isn't a swiss turn CAM software that is anywhere close to user-friendly as modern milling.Also a swiss programmer, also love esprit. Left partmaker behind because it just couldn't do certain things and there is no real support imo. Master cam is nice but esprit is pretty much flawless.Out of the options you listed I only have very limited experience with SolidCAM and I can say I have not been a fan of it when comparing it to Siemens NX or Fusion.I run esprit and have used Mastercam. Neither in a Swiss context, but I prefer Mastercam over esprit.Do another round of quotes for 2-3 weeks of training and some application support before pulling the trigger. I know nothing about featurecam; anybody familiar with solidworks will do ok with solidcam; esprit and Mastercam are basically impossible to use well without a shit ton of training or prior experience.Do you have guys with CAM experience already or are you all manually programming? How complex are your parts, what capabilities of your Swiss do you rely on?Many Swiss shops hand program - what's driving the move to cam?I remember one called partmaker that was specifically software for Swiss turn programming but not sure how it was after autodesk mergeI program Swiss lathes as my day job for a medical implant company. Espirit every day of the week. We had Mastercam training on their version and it’s a cobbled together idea. I use Mastercam for mill and lathe by the way. But Swiss, Mastercam is horrible for. Go to Espirit and never look back. It’s a very steep learning curve. But you will not be disappointed. If you make parts that will run for 20 years. You’ll have to hand edit to save seconds. There’s no getting around it. But more “job shop” make a few thousand. Espirit is plug and play. That would be my first and second choice. Just prepare for a tough time learning the software.Why would you use featurecam? Partmaker is for swiss.Partmaker is sold as part of FeatureCAM now. You buy FeatureCAM and then use Partmaker within FeatureCAM to do Swiss work.Not on your list, but I would go GIBBSCAM ( use it for Mill, Lathe, and Swiss) or Siemens if you have the time/budget and the need to do “involved” design side work.Like others said, Esprit by a mile. Buy the solo training time with an AE. The time will pay for itself.Partmaker's the same as it was, functionally. But It's sold within Autodesk FeatureCAM. They haven't taken anything out of Partmaker.So I bought a Haas mini mill because I thought it would be neat. No experience. I now have two VF2's. A UMC500 on order and looking for a lathe. Waiting on permit approval from the city to double my shop space. I started less than 3 years ago. Plenty of work, but I can't see making a dime if you are trying to find a programmer to moonlight for you.You can make money but be organized. Like I said I am new but I always planned for tomorrow. Have a full QMS, ISO9001, ITAR. A full dedicated inspection room with a CMM. 100% self taught. I work from home and average 30-40k profit a month. Not the biggest, but not bad for a self taught at home shop. If I can do it, you can do it. 3 years ago I was a bank manager...Finding work is the easy part as long as YOU can make good parts and have the paperwork and everything in order to prove it.. don't make a part you can't properly inspect. Be honest with yourself and your customers and you will be fine.How hard is it to get the certs for arms manufacture?I'll supervise for way more than that local guy hmuIf he's going to have a shop supervisor for his garage, I can be the front desk person. I'll answer the phones and instead of screening calls, just send every tooling vendor into the garage to find you. I'll also organize the all hands meetings.I'm not sure what you mean there, I don't need a supervisor.If you can program a Fanuc or Okuma, you can learn Seimens easily enough. The g and m codes are basically the same, it's the cycles and calling subs where it gets weird. Watch some videos and try some stuff, you'll be fine.Shop I work in uses almost exclusively CAM for programming 'cause when you standardize tooling and use CAM there's little to no chance on crashing In regards of those two CAM programs I can't tell you anything since we're using SolidCamYears ago i took some training in SolidEdge and thought it was pretty user friendly, i would guess SolidCam is also easy to use?Hypermill I think will be your best option. 5 axis toolpaths are an absolute breeze in hypermill. I've also used powermill for years but I would go with hypermill for efficiency.Yep. Second vote for HyperMill.Also job shop in Germany running DMG EcoMill 70, DMU 70 U and 50 U with it and occasionally a Haas machine but that's usually done with OneCNC which is fine for 3 axis. Hypermill rarely gives me any headaches and even then probably 70% of the time it's a user error. They keep innovating and release a couple service pack each year that improve the user experience.So in conclusion I can't say anything about the other options but hypermill is absolutely fine imho.Edit: Also it's pretty intuitive. I was trained on the job and can get anything done with it.I run fusion 360 on all kinds of mazaks. It sounds like what you need. Approachable, easy to learn, inexpensive, and upgradeable. If you want 5 axis simultaneous, you can get the licence for a single day for a few dollars. 5 axis positional is included in the base package. A downside is that it's cloud based, so if you have defense parts etc, it won't work.We have 3 axis mills and a cnc lathe in a startup. We get by with fusion 360. I have heard good things about esprit.Are you using a presetter to set tools? If not I'd look into a Zoller. They have a great TMS, and their software interfaces with most common CAM systems.If you're programming in mazatrol I wouldn't look at packages like esprit or hypermill. Yes they are nice but they cost a fortune and sound like massive overkill for what you are doing. I would suggest looking at fusion, $500 a year for a seat.I'd say go for Espirit or hypermill. I have visi at work and use it alongside WorkNC. Visi is just a cad software with the most basic CAM package out there, and it is super clunky and not worth the head ache. Mastercam and solidworks/camworks have good offerings for what you're looking for but cost just as much as what you had mentioned. If the owner intends to grow the shop more and its capabilities, getting either hypermill/espirit may be the way to go.Siemens Nx is so under the radar!! It's magically!I would highly recommend SolidCAM. My company is a long term customer with 7 licenses, and it's a perfect choice if you want to program milling and turning. They have a specialized post-processor technician for mazak machines in their team, which would be helpful if you're running those machines. I like the license model as well. You can pick exactly what you need, this can save some cash. Additionally the support in Germany is great. Very fast and always helpful. If you have any questions just pm me.MasterCam , ran it for 25 years ONECNC out of Australia has the easiest post processor to change ran it 12 years You can keep that high end junk SmartCam was the absolute best at tool control order direction and getting it to do exactly what you wanted in what order you wanted Heard it kinda made a comeback after SDRC killed it and several other cam systems developing EDS brand of software MasterCam hands down lath and mill Did wire also but a cheap cam system will do wireWith Wikifactory you can manage any CAD file that you want with any problem, i recommend you to check it.Our shop is primarily Mazak and most of the guys use MasterCamI’ve used Mastercam for around 23 years now to program both mills and wire edm’s, and also Esprit to program wire edm’s only for just less than 2 years. I also work next to people who use WorkNC to program mills. Mastercam has lots of good features such as a powerful suite of commands that make modeling easier, than at least Esprit does in the level of license I use. I must also add that I never was formally trained on Esprit and had to learn it by trial and error. My take on Esprit is that it does a phenomenal job of post processing resulting in no need to edit gcode, but it also takes way longer to make a program and it’s shit when it comes to editing a bad geometry section that causes a fault at the control, etc. Mastercam needs a little bit more manual gcode editing for wire edm than Esprit unless you have a good post processor. In a comparison between Mastercam and WorkNC for programming a mill, if the part is simple and the files aren’t gargantuan, then they both work well. But if you are machining very large complex models, Mastercam gets unwieldy as the file gets larger and the restmill tool path starts to basically no longer work. Not using restmill can be really stressful doing unattended over night cutting as it’s hard for me to sleep while I’m envisioning the mayhem that may be taking place. I’m not an expert with WorkNC as I’ve never used it, but it seems to maintain a stock model and knows at all times not to do stupid shit like Mastercam. I’ve watched the smooth cutter paths it outputs and I’m jealous.It's all about the Post. You can get them to customize it (or them more likely since you have multiple machines) for you for a fee.It's well worth it.Thank you for your advice! I bet that took some time to write. Sorry, but what is restmill?If you’re worrying about checking your Gcode is correct and don’t want to crash your machines I would suggest looking at VERICUT. Been around for over 30 years and simulate everythingThe machine demands a blood sacrifice.This is the correct answer.The message is mostly cut off in your picture, but as a wild guess- if the machine got e-stopped, you have to hit the power button again on some machines after clearing the estop button.You need to do a blood sacrifice, it helps keep the machine tolerance. /sI apologize I mean the red oil symbol. Edit: centered up in the the photo next to the axis symbols.Most cncs will stop the hydraulic system when in an Estop state. This can cause "low hydraulic pressure" alarms in addition to the general Estop alarm. To be sure, check the sight glass on your oil tank.Apart from oil/grease level low, have had similar for low air pressure on some machines. If it's grease it could be an air lock (should be a bleeding nut under the grease unit) if it's oil check the pot for anything loose in there that could trigger the lube low switch. That's everything I've come across sorry if no help.We have a dvf5000 but it's heidenhain. I haven't touched a fanuc control in ages and don't miss it lmaoIs your way lube low?Haas’s YouTube channel covers the basics. Sandvik’s e-learning center has free machining courses that are nice as well. Titan’s of CNC has some basics videos that are decent, you just have to fish through all the clickbait and Kennametal ads.Haas also offers certification programs for mills and lathes, but I couldn’t tell you what it costs. It’s actually handled by the dealers and not Haas themselves. It’s like a three day class for each and by the end you can setup, run and do some very basic programming.I've been watching the Haas videos and doing their certification program videos/ quizzes. I'll give sandviks a look. Thank you.Using the machine. Plenty of crashes to be had…Basically what my first thought was too.If you are married with 4 kids and a wife you learn quick or go hungry.Learn to swim or you will sink like a fishLearn to pull out, goddamnG00 G17 G90 G54 Z-30.00 Pretty easy, you're welcome 😊What’s the blue jigger on your carousel?They're magnetic parallel holders so my parallels don't tip over or get askew when I'm loading stock/parts into it. Just don't forget to remove them before milling if you're doing steel! Took me a while to get all the chips off them haha.Thats a haasYou get today's observation award.Machining DJ decks yeah?Not quite :). Custom dash for 67-72 C10 Chevy Trucks.https://parts-provider.com/fanuc-series-16-18-backup-and-restore-procedure/So the major problem I had And I swear to you, this is not out there easy to find InformationSomehow, the Internet Frustrates me more now and solves fewer problemsAnyways, what had to be done was to hold the reset and the delete key when it was powered onThat is the only way that the read function will become availableAfter the power is on, you still have to change the parameters for communication you have the ability to read your back up file once you get your stop bits and baud rate adjustedIf your parameters are truly goneThe machine still has to Be started with the reset and delete key pressed when you turn it onI feel like Fanuc had special functions with every new seriesI can’t remember all of them along with the Yasnak and the Fadal and the Haas and Siemens and Okuma and the 20 other controls I’m not even listeningI do it for fun. Making logics and such. Play with automation or other fun stuffI'm glad you've come to terms with it.Hey man, were all mentally challenged in our own little fun silly way.We'reI prefer being mentally challenged in other ways.Sincerely,-Shop EngineerI read this at first as if he was fired, verrrry politelyCan Mastercam wireframe drawing and making toolthpaths be considered programming?We’ve got a 2007 vf2 that’s still kicking ass and taking names and a 2013 vf4 both going strong.What materials are you usually cutting?Late 2000 haas models are old? Idk how we turn out parts on late 80s early 90s machines then lolIt's an ok machine, run better and run worse. It really wants to be a 50 taper machine so I found a few times it was just hard running parts the size of the table with a 4" facemill. Like any Haas VMC there is flex in the head so you will notice that you can't take super deep cuts and a spring pass is mandatory on critical stuff. But that said it's not a bad machine, you just need to figure out its qwerks and work with them.A 2007 Haas is really old. I'd try to find something newer.We ran two Haas VMC's from the 90s with no issues, alot of stainless, tool steel, some aluminum. If you keep up on the maintenance and don't beat the absolute piss out of them, they're good budget machines.Work with haas's day in and day out. Should be fine.our first vertical grinder straight from Japan!Is that Fanuc or Siemens control?fanucNoDidn't see DMG Mori at imts. Must be an off brandNo they had their own Tech Show the same week as IMTS in Hoffman Estates, ILWhat is the price and model of the machine?taiyo koki with dmg Mori. close to 700k. this is our first venture into cnc grinding.Sort of depends on what market you’re aiming for. MasterCAM is everywhere and what I learned first.Starting to get recruiters asking for NX or CATIA for higher end machines and TS-SCI work.Whatever the majority of the shops around you run. Here it's Mastercam, 200 miles away it's NX, etc. I worked with a guy who struggled to get a job because he was an NX guy who moved here and nobody wanted to teach him Mastercam.The slides are fine, although they have undergone a little wear. The Spindle is working fine, the bearings are in good health. All the gears seems to be good.Will be replacing the lead screw with a ball screw for two axes and strap a Siemens controller with servos on to it.sniff sniffWhat's that smell? It smells like someone who's done this before.... Have you?Why not use mach? Is there a reason to go Siemens on a diy CNC?In a scrapyard?Wow!I have seen much worse still in use at shops, as production machines.My makerspace is currently using a 70 year old 9x12 atlas that holds a 0.020" tolerance on a good day.How do these machines compare to the western stuff?Honestly, I haven't seen old lathes from the west, so I have no idea. I don't think the functionality and design would be that different from those machines, but the castings generally are not that good in India.But, these were considered the best machines you could buy back then though. Generally there would be a two year waiting period before you got your machine delivered.The company that made these was owned by the government. It's now called HMT and is still in existence. Might even have some documentation on these older models.Why the fuck don't I have one of these scrapyards by me?All that iron and yet it has that teeeeny tiny boreHey OP, isn't this the same HMT that makes watches too?Yep, it's the same company. They were a large company back in the days. They've shut most of their businesses now.Fun fact, they had a division of their own that made the precision machine tools that manufactured their watches.I’ve done a couple retrofits on older 40” Bullards. One with a Fanuc and one with a Fagor (customer’s request). I would recommend eBay for your major components to save yourself a whole lot of money. If you decide to go with Fanuc, PM me and I could probably find you most of your major componentsHahahaRetrofitting.What? Is it any different than the scads of Bridgeport CNC conversions that were done over the years? Some of 'em were quite badly done indeed (scrapped out a Taiwanese clone with CNC that probably never worked right from the factory, the wiring was so bad) but others were, and still are, good machines.I like the Viekong vfds. They are chinese, but it is a real quality product(much nicer than my Siemens, Automation Direct, or Fuji vfds) with great support.Cant go wrong with an appropriately size Teco vfd. They're more than the el cheapo ebay units, but they work, continue to work, and don't tend to spontaneously let out the magic smoke. I'm guessing your mill is around 1hp so a Teco in that ballpark can be had for under $200.On a fanuc controls G4 P- is in thousands of a second. On Haas and some other controls G4 P1 is 1 second and if u want to pause for less than 1 second u can use decimal places such as G4 P.15I had no idea. But waiting 2000seconds to break a chip was a bit muchI always just use G4 X- on fanuc, since that is seconds.On Okuma, it's seconds, although it's not a P value it's F. e.g G04 F5Same with Siemens and Heidenheim.It all depends on the control and how the parameters were set, especially for machines with Fanuc control.I run a machine with Fanuc 21i and I can use either G04 P2000 or G04 U2.0. They both work the same.That username checks out, especially for this groupSome controls interpret a number without a decimal as a whole number, while others interpret it as a thou. Sometimes you can even change this behavior in the settings. Also on controls that interpret as a thou, you have to put a decimal after the number to get a whole number.Depends on the parameters I supposeAre your parameters set to assume whole number in the absence of a decimal point?This is like putting an EoTech on a Mosin.Reminds me of Micah Mayfield's mosin“Even in death, I still serve”I've never seen a machine getting turned into a dreadnought before.Or maybe even a servitor.It's like a matchlock anti-air laserDown right rude. Like getting a grey beard who retired and locking him up in the shop to literally work to his grave!They threw a 840D on that thang….. crazy. Be nice if they put as much effort into support. Rather enjoy Siemens control but they act like they shit don’t stink in comparison to heidenhain. Manuals are spread out all over and no good examples, anyone that can read can teach themselves from a heidenhain book. Guess they just want that big course buy inReminds me of work, the DoN just keeps retrofitting instead of replacingAt some point we should stop asking if we can and instead start asking if we should.In a museum? Pretty sure that would be a demonstration piece, but they aren't able to or didn't want to setup a 120 or so year old machine shop, like they have at Greenfield Village, in Dearborn, Michigan.That’s cool!That lathe is screaming "Can't you guys please just leave me alone!!"."I made parts for the Kaiser, I made parts for the Nazis, I made parts when this place was called 'Karl-Marx-Stadt' and I'll got an offer from Rheinmetall yesterday to make shells again."Pls don't give my boss any ideasThat’s crazyOh I actually love that!That would be interesting to run.I work with far too many people that would that this is the future…if only that lathe knew 100 years ago what it would eventually see and become lol, super cool in terms of technological advancementI have one that roughs and finishes holes for my live tooling. One for the x head and one for the z. Also have one that will chamfer said hole. I use other's alot too like pc counts, job % complete, how many pcs left on the bar, remaining mins til bar is done, how long til job is complete, Count downs. If I have a really long job I will load two turning tools (any same tool really) set them, then have the macro cut say 500 pcs then switch to the other tool and cut another 500 pcs then alarm and tell me to change inserts. I have one that let's me put a 12 foot bar in and if I only want 20 pcs it will stop after that and update my bar length so I don't even have to take the bar out and re measure. I use a part off/ bar pull macro alot. I'm working on a threadmill macro but haven't had a lot of time to work on it latelyI wrote one that will probe the top of a cylinder on a 5 axis machine and use linear algebra to calculate the position in B and C that will make it flat, then move the workshift to that location. At some point, I'd like to get it working for non-round parts, but I haven't found an excuse to do it yet.I also wrote one that will probe the helix on a high pitch, variable lead roller and determine the C offset for re-machining after welding on a mill-turn.We're also working on one that will use a barcode scanner to generate a program based off of part dimensions that are stored in the barcode.Another cool but simple one is a time compensation for simulating on the machine for variables that aren't included, such as pallet changes. It gives a more accurate simulation time.One that I'd like to do, but haven't had time for is a full 5 axis calibration.I didn't write it but I ran a machine with a simple macro for engraving serial numbers ran great for around 14000 pieces.I made a few cool ones for my old shop's horizontals.This one became a keystone for every program I wrote. It prevents loading incorrect raw stock that may be too tall, or too long.This can check if the operator loaded a blank within a centerline window. This can prevent a part needing cleanup on both sides to not run of too far to one side.Now my most complex macro... this figure out how many of a generic part it can make out of a full stick of materialEDIT: the G229 you'll see is a macro given to me by an engineer with Selway.I build bikes for a living, which involves lots of one off tube mitering to a specific angle, length, and clocking for custom frame geometry. One particular part which as always been a huge pain is the seat stay bridge. You can't make an accurate drawing to make the part because there is too much variation from bending and weld deformation. The easiest manual method wound up being to grind both miters by hand rather than setting up machines.I eventually made a parameterized Visual Basic macro that calculated a 3d tool path from two measurements easily taken after most of the rest of the frame was already welded, along with a fixture that only needed z to be found after clamping in the machine vice. Lots of trig and calculus, but it's fast from set up to finished part every time!https://www.instagram.com/p/BHVjQLsDMdo/?utm_medium=copy_link https://www.instagram.com/volvoracernumber5/p/BFSIg1_G_Gf/?utm_medium=copy_linkI've also made many parameterized g code programs that allow me to miter both ends of a custom tube in one set up, even when the miters are clocked 90 degrees to each other.I did an autocomp macro for haas that measures a feature, changes the cutter diameter and recuts until the feature is in spec. Pretty cool, you have to make sure the probe is dialed and calibrated well though. I could post code if there's interest.I made a macro that probes stock in Z, X-, X+, Y-, Y+ to make sure the offsets are correct and your stock is the right size. It pulls variables that get defined in the post so everything we make that's either a rectangular prism or upright cylinder automotically has a probing routine. Pretty proud of that. Saved the noobs from 100s of crashes. Many of those noobs probably wouldn't have jobs if not for this macro lol.Also made another probing macro which had lots of copy-pasta from the first program. It's basically the same thing except instead of giving you an error when it's wrong, it adjusts automatically for best fit. This was on a 5-axis machine so it could fix B and C too if you edit one of the variables and tell it to.Well, one of my favorites that I did was on a dual column portal mill. The bridge (W) rapids at 157ipm. Bridge travel added a full minute to every tool change because by default it would rise fully, drop down to W-42. For the exchange, rise fully, them back down to about W-45. (Typical working position.) Head rotations and changes were the same. Tool changes and head position cycles were classic Japanese programming, direct ladder calls with no macro intermediary. So along come I, with the finest Jinglish bible in hand. I created macro programs addressed by the same M codes involved in the tool change and head cycles. They read the current tool length, the workpiece height from table (variable already in every program) calculate a safe W tool exchange position, execute tool change, capture new tool length, move W to new safe height if needed, then proceeds with machining. Zero modification required to the workpiece programs. I included a tracking variable to keep tabs on how many hours it's saved. Something like 150hrs runtime annually which works out to over 22 miles of up and down W travel. Since implementing in summer of 2020 we've realized more than 8 weeks runtime saved. The machine had the ability from factory, by adding a Q command with every tool change, but it did not automatically retract the bridge to a safe height post exchange and required extra programming at every single tool call, head positioning or head exchange so no one used it.Most I ever did was when I was in tech school. I made a program to 5 side a block. You had to put in start size, finish size, tool diameter, tool number, sfm, chip load, corner radius of block, step down.Bannish redundant info from programs! Macro languages have system variables for reading tool data, including length and radMade a macro that fired some air solenoids and checked pressure gages to see if part was clamped properly. It was more mechanical, the code was only a few lines but it was fun to engineer.Any of you folks write functions or canned cycles using macro? I've done a bunch, assigning G code addresses with parameter transfer.I wrote a macro that touches off the current tool, and then changes to the next one.Where do I start learning cnc mill lathe macros?wheres the intro to macro cnc lol I just know G0 Z -100000. is badProbably the most user friendly and easiest to learn by yourself is Fusion 360. You don't have as much control over toolpaths settings, but it's good enough for possibly most things that you will ever do on a mill. Also, it's the cheapest one out there, with price one digit lower that other CAM softwares (depending on your currency). There are tons of tutorials on YouTube, because a lot of hobbyst use it. NYC CNC, Pierson Workholding and Titans of CNC have some great tutorials about Fusion. NYC have their site with tutorials, Titans of CNC have their Academy site, where you can learn everything from designing parts, using CAM and making part on machine.There are certain limitations with the software though.All files save in the cloud by default, and certain features require cloud saves in order to function at all. The most recent attempt by Autodesk was to remove the ability to export files in a non-proprietary format from the hobbyist version (thankfully this was reversed from community outrage).Autodesk wont tell you where the data is, which makes anything confidential technically in breach of agreements if it is saved in the cloud. This includes any drawing that has the line "This drawing is confidential and may not be reproduced in any part without authorisation" and the like.Autodesk has a history of moving features into a higher pay subscription. At the moment Fusion360 is the best value for money 3D cad software by far. Almost to a point where it is too good to be true. Autodesk is trying to lure people in at this stage of development2D drawing is currently lacking quite a few featuresHave to pay to use certain features (even when paying the subscription). By memory this includes FEA, and generative design. This is because it requires cloud computation, which is a paid service.Software is slow to boot up to 'do a quick thing' because models have to be downloaded from the cloud (by default) or loaded from the HDD (an intentionally overcomplicated process)Other than that, it is actually pretty good software for most modelling. It is also under heavy development with new features and changes (for better or worse) coming more frequently than other equivalent software. And the manufacturing system seems to be the easiest to use from what I've tried.From a technical POV it's great currently. But not necessarily from a business POV.Mastercam has fantastic posts for Doosan, that's what I would recommendMastercam was life-changing for me. I went from working with surfcam for years to Mastercam last year and my production has gone thru the roof. Between templates, tool groups, and a few changes in parameters, my ryzen cannot keep up. I can roll out an entire fixture in less than 30 mins. Since I work with 9 seperate machines it's more than critical and the newfound abilities of the engineering department (me) has blown my entire company away.Does it have basic fanuc controller?It's fanuc. It'll run any basic g code.I use hsmworks add on for solidworks.What are your thoughts on the hsmworks add-on in solidworks? Any major drawbacks? I'm considering switching over from Fusion 360 as I do all of my design in SolidWorks already.Gibbscam - I was able to get functional with it in a week and proficient in a few months. I haven't watched much of the tutorial content for their stuff on youtube but the stuff I have watched has been good.Mastercam is by my estimation the market leader if there is one, and I played with it a bit and it definitely seems more powerful/customizable that gibbs, but I find gibbs does basically everything I need with an occasional workaround which is easy enough as you can just paste in some gcode to be inserted before or after an opI use GibbsCam its user friendly but I do feel like there may be more "powerful" cam packages out there. Never had experience with any others thoughBobCAD V34... it's not the GibbsCam I was used to for 20 years..but it's good...just a few more clicks to get things doneThe company I work for has been using BobCAD since like version 22 lol. It gets the job done, and I've been using it long enough now, I know it like the back of my hand. They've made a lot of improvements over the years. Trying to check out new softwares thoughFingerCAM.Well personally in our shop the guys who design our measuring equipment use solid works (fully paid version) and they have a few laptops and computers kicking around on the shop floor with Mastercam 4 (pirated) for us lowly shop guys, personally I enjoy fusion 360 cause it’s cheap and easy to useEspritCAM- As a holder of a full Fusion 360 seat, as well as a 5-axis MasterCAM 2021 seat, I can tell you that our shop is LIGHTYEARS more productive with Esprit over MCAM. Nobody uses the $eat of MCAM any more. Everyone loves Esprit. Granted, Esprit is more expensive than MCAM, but when your shop is so much more productive, who cares. BTW, we are a heavy 5 + axis shop and do a great deal of ITAR work, so mostly we can’t use Fusion anyway.Enroute4. It was free.I use Fusion 360 because our work is mostly turning as well, except for fixtures like soft jaws that requires adaptive clearing and the like. I couldn’t justify several thousand dollars for a CAM program. It satisfies all my needs, and then some. It has a few add-ons. I’m looking at the rotary tooling module next, which gives you live tool milling capability on a C axis spindle, the kind of stuff you just can’t code by hand.Also, you can model and produce technical drawings, which was good for our machinists who can’t seem to produce the same part twice in a row. I can now throw together a simple part (100-200 lines code) and its drawing in <1 hour. It’s cloud based too, so I can just go home, log in and continue my work.The only issue you may have is that your laptop’s hardware may be too old.I use gibbscam 2007 (because my boss doesn’t want to learn a new program) and also fusion 360 because we can’t do 1/2 the stuff we do without it.Gibbs is requiring anyone who hasn't been on maintenance for more than 4 years to repurchase seats if they don't get back on before the end of the year, maybe you can talk him into upgradingFusion360 - besides the cad/cam capabilities, the support on thier homepage and socialmedia-channals (and the already named pro's), it is realy good at datatransfer across other cam-software. Fusion360 also came with an interesting data-management-system (could a bit controversal).In our shop we had a demonstration of a cutting-edge cam software called iMachining. A stunning piece of software pushing our mill gentley to the limits -with a price arround 60.000€... thats ~10 to 15 years of using Fusion360.Someone experienced with iMachining?!Nice Nak, I was last machining in an AS200LMY. Best plastic chip catching I ever did like this was cutting giant acme threads into PVC. Throwing straight up ropesI want that control, it looks like Siemens but Fanuc.The old deflect o matic technique. We do it all the time.Running with the door open. That's a paddlin'-OSHAI miss my nakamura from my last job. Wt-300 twin turret with 10k psi high pressure coolant routed to both my subspindle and turrets. Ran some big 'ole drills off that sub.Meanwhile in the factory that makes the machine:Machine throws error about some electrical unitOpen the door on the back of the machineThousands of wires and non-descript Siemens boxes humming away*Nothing on fire here* looks good to me I guessCall electrical guy, close door, reboot machineMysteriously works all of a sudden when the electrical guy arrivesI swear my lathe has a ghost, it has an intermittent issue during start up especially if its cold/winter. Every time I get a repair guy I can't replicate the issue. It's so frustrating.As a manufacturing engineer forcing myself to really figure out and learn the electrical schematics has helped me a ton. It’s really not all that complex once you see it broken down into parts!Edit: wow really touched a nerve with a couple guys.Note to others: don’t be like them. You’ll go nowhere.I had an old Motion Master router I used to program. You had to tell it that it was pretty in order to get the U axis to home properly.The operators and maintenance didn't believe it until they saw it.On a Robodrill:SV1068 dual check Safety AlarmEx1079 KA33 Relay is defectiveMust be some electrical problem, right? You're technically not wrong.Did you guys know cnc machines run on 4 D batteries?Partly.. if I remember correctly, that's what powers the unit that keeps memory for stuff like zero, parameters, etc right?I just remember when we got the alarm that the batteries were going out, and my boss basically told me "you really wanna make sure you change them. It's your ass if it dies and loses all that info" or something along those lines. Not sure how true that statement was.I'm the opposite. Electronics I'm fine with, but gears and... I dunno, whatever other stuff is in machines, I just don't know enough to really grok it yet.Just blame the solenoids. It’s always them bloody solenoids. 🤬This is me at the current moment.That was a funny moment in the movie.Totally meWell, you’re not wrong.Then the maintenance technicians such as myself swoop in to save the day! Or F*** something else up. LolWhat's behind the sticker?Btw, you're entering down a path over many years in the making.https://www.practicalmachinist.com/forum/threads/anyone-know-the-brand-name-of-this-caliper-greek-letter-mu-in-a-diamond.259946/I thought it was vintage NSK since older NSK micrometers have the micro symbol but I have yet to see anything like yours yet.Sorry forgot to answer you; nothing behind the stickersI own a handful of measuring tools but recently got a couple of these vintage ones to Learn how to use and use quickly since they’re not used anymore since everything is digital nowThat looks like a Mitutoyo.It’s not, it woulda said “”Mitutoyo” but this one has just a weird M in that VNMG shaped area.That's the Greek letter mu. Company could be out of business.Most likely , would still like to find out the brand thoughLooks like a TESSAHard to say honestly. It might be starret. It might be some other brand. Heck, it even looks like one I bought as joke, metric mic for $3.I bought it for $10 but the original owner said he had it for over 20 years and doesn’t know what brand it is. I’m just curious to know if it’s a decent brand to todays standards to use daily at work in aerospaceIt's siemens :DNothing online linking this mic to SiemensIt literally says Fanuc in the bottom right corner....I feel like I've seen that logo before. I'll take a look around work tomorrow.Thank you! Keep me updated pleaseYou're right it looks close. They do not have that stylized "M" listed as a logo. Chinesium??Moore ?Sorry, it was a joke. I think that is siemens machine behind mic.I think made in china. I have a set looks very simular.Yes I have bought a bunch of them for different tools in my shop. I currently have (in use) 2x 2.2kw 2x 3kw 4x 5kw and 5x 7.5kw and 2x 9kwThey are Super cheap easy to have spares in case any die. And I have had a couple die. One of the 5kw died just a couple weeks ago. A 2.2 KW died about 6 months ago and it was about year old After about a year and a half of use. The fact is I have had very expensive VFDs die as well. So take that with a grain of salt.There is definitely a quality difference between my fuji frenic, Hitachi, Allen-Bradley, Siemens, ABB, VFDs on my expensive machines.And the no brand chineseium ones I put on grinders, small lathes, air compressors, drills, bridgeports, etc. The fact is I can buy three or four of these Chineseium VFDs for the cost of a Fuji Frenic. So it is easy to buy a few and have a spare and makes sense to use for non-essential, machines on lower duty cycles then production.Thanks, the drill press I wanna put it on is pretty old and I got it for cheap so I don’t wanna spend almost the same amount on quality vfd. I’m gonna give it a try.My general experience with "chinesium" components is that you need to over-spec them by at least 50% if you want them to be reliable. Need 2kW? Get a 3kW VFD.thanks a lot, I will keep this in mindThis is good practice... But I do the same thing for "high quality" VFDs as well.I'll go out on a limb and guess that you plan on powering a 220/240V three-phase motor with your VFD, which will draw power from a 220/240V single-phase outlet. If that's the case, note that you need to multiply the motor's full-load amperage (FLA) by 1.7 to get the amperage requirement of the VFD. This is to compensate for the one- to three-phase conversion losses.And then, as others have said, I'd add another 50% for a Chinesium VFD as a safety factor for likely cheap components used internally.(Edited to fix the proper FLA multiplication. It's actually the square root of 3, or about 1.732. Here's a link to explain it in more detail, FWIW: https://www.tpctraining.com/blogs/news/the-difference-in-single-phase-and-3-phase-power-1 )I have 1.5kw one for my desktop lathe. Runs well for more than year now.nice, thanks for the infoYou are right, they leave a helix. You'll need approval of the customer to use them. Source: Saw a Slideshow presentation by an Emuge rep.Makes sense. Thank you!There is a video of it here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3AQOEsIktTkAnd Bob Warfield has some info on his website: https://www.cnccookbook.com/emuge-punch-taps/Steps:Plunge move180 degree spindle rotation with simultaneous half-pitch retractRetract moveIf you are interested Emuge has an applications team that can help you with your application. This type of tool path requires a machine that can precisely rotate the spindle and a custom canned cycle.One more thing there are grooves that are left in the thread you can see this in photo here:https://assets.new.siemens.com/siemens/assets/api/uuid:97364942-4622-4353-8ec0-80ababe60cff/width:640/quality:high/scrshot-punch-tap-emuge-sinumerik-02.jpgThe helix into and out of the hole are supposed to match up, so you'll have 2 helical grooves. You'll lose some thread engagement, but not that much. If the grooves aren't acceptable in your application, you'll need something else.There's a drill/threadmill combo out there, too. The drill is bigger than the thread mill and cuts a thread relief as the threadmill portion is doing its thing. I think that one was developed by Mazak, but I don't remember who makes the tool.That makes sense. I thought I was crazy haha. Thank you!We do basically all our tapping with form taps in aluminum.Thanks for sharingNcviewer will only show toolpath. Doesn't take in mind the tool width or height offsets..There used to be a program called "sl win" (Google for exsl or something like that.. has a yellow icon with SL lettered inside it) by a German company that since has stopped, that could simulate a workpiece, tools with offsets and how the workpiece would look after you typed in the code, but I haven't found anything like that simulator ever again...I’ve only used NC Viewer once or twice, didn’t care for it. What do you mean “premade programs”? If you mean the code posted from Fusion, Fusion has its own verify functions that work pretty well imo. Some clarification might help you get better answers.That’s going to be it. Years back I was making multistart acme threads for some r&d project. Went all the way at up to a 12 start. Once I got to 5 starts I had to grind relief on the backside of the insert to accommodate the helix. It was years ago but I think I found an equation in a thread spec.If you do it in a lathe as others suggested remember to limit the RPM based on your max linear feed rateMany lathes won’t tell you they are cutting the wrong pitch, they’ll just max out the linear speed and hope for the bestYeah unfortunately it's gotta be done on the mill, thanks for the tip though!You won’t be able to do this with your tool, no matter how many teeth you grind off. Instead you’d need to basically triple the relief angle on each tooth. Five axis might work, if you can manage to program it, or you’ll have to do it in a lathe, which has its own challenges!God damn, yeah my coworker was just thinking the same thing, just don't have the relief on it we need.This is a medical device and has insane geometry so unfortunately it can't go on the lathe. We'll try doing some 5 axis tool paths and see if we can get a decent result.Thanks for the input!It is most likely insufficient back clearance on the cutter, yes. You might be able to do it with a single tooth thread mill with lots of clearance, or a custom tool. Is this a part that has been made before? If not it is pretty easy to challenge the designer on stuff like this and say "hey, this feature is making your part a lot more expensive to make, are you sure you need a nonstandard triple start thread?"Yeah we've modified the tool we have on hand to the best of our abilities with our wire EDM. We'll find out tomorrow morning now if it'll work.This is a part that's been made before yeah, we have a subcontractor currently producing the part with a custom made tap, but they refuse to share it with us for our R&D purposes. We decided to try thread milling it in the abscence of that special tap and the time to order one, but ran into this issue instead.We use vericut software to validate the tool paths and we discovered this afternoon that if we go down to a thread mill made for #5 instead of #6, it has enough of a difference in Dia. to give us the back end clearance to make it work.. Atleast according to vericut anyways. Thanks for your input!You can get single point threadmills, but if you cant find one that works you might be surprised at how inexpensive a custom tool can be.If the thread wasn't a non standard another option is to use a tap with spindle orientation values to get your triple start.Yeah our Subcontractor doing the production machining on these parts have a custom made tap, but wouldn't share one with us for some R&D work with the parts. We have an incredibly short time line for this work and have to deliver it inside of the lead time for a tap.We found out a slightly smaller thread mill (#5 instead of #6) has enough of a difference in diameter to clear the back side of the tool/threads.You'll get more relief clearance from a smaller diameter thread mill, maybe try one for a #5 or 3 mm.no , never could figure it out , seems easier to just manually type the program and use sub programs if neededYup, it's the bomb. Once you get used to it it's very good. Made some very interesting parts with it.Old hardinge elite 8/51.Use it for bolt circles a lotNo, only the simulation.We ‘almost’ only use the dialog for lathe, it happens we need to use SolidCAM for advance stuff though :)I used similar on simens ui for really complicated profiles or if client gave us shitty blueprints (i didnt use pc cams for lathe). It cut down programming time because i could do both roughing/finishing cycles at same time, and ad them as subprogram. Only shitty part was that siemens didint post it own code as g-codes, it was something else, no one was able to read and edit it. so fine tunig had to be done it own editor, but it was easy.For complicated geometries, yes. For simple shit, no. It's another tool in the box, but it's a little cumbersome to use exclusively.Whatever is going to get you the furthest out of your comfort zone. I didn't start actually learning when I started out until I got pulled of the stuff I knew well. Once that happened I quickly became the guy that everyone came to when they needed help and I was at the top of the list for helping to tackle new projects when they came in. If you have an opportunity to learn and master something completely different than what you're used to, go for it, you will regret little to nothing.Which one pays the most?Siemens controls which could lead me to designWhy can’t you learn programming the Mazak offline ?Our programming office is run through EDGECAM and we already have 3 programmersYou want to be programming and doing design work. There's more money in it in the long run. You can always fall back on running machines.Don't look at jobs as "it might lead me down a certain path". Take the obvious path. Granted opportunities will pop up but there's usually someone in line ahead of you.Expect to be doing the job you were hired for with no chance for advancement forever ... But take any opportunity that presents itself. Also don't expect raises. The jump in pay you get switching jobs is always going to be bigger than any raise. So don't go in low. Ask for all the moneys.Get a new job every yearThe more you know the more leverage you have in the future to get into a better job that pays more.Haidenhein(spelled wrong I'm sure) is also getting massively popular. It's worth knowing. Mazatrol is still common too.The interrupt feature is a goddamn godsend especially if you're not just doing production work. Makes it so easy to check dims, change inserts, whatever without having to stop and restart the program.I've got a 2018 VM30i. I love it. It's very easy to use with great conversational controls. I ran a 2003 VM30 for many years before as well. My biggest complaint is that the controller runs on a Windows platform and can sometimes just nope the fuck out ..... Also a lack of post processors. I've been using a Fanuc 0m or 16m post for a while now.Good machines. Controllers are a bit over-complicated, but imo they make up for it with the physical quality of the machine.I liked them, I got the hang of them pretty quickly. + yellow button.As others have stated, the interrupt feature is boss. Also on the newer controllers you can run both conversational and nc blocks in the same program.We have probably 15 hurcos. Most are run by toolmakers. The other machines are run by dedicated people and they run nc programs.We’ve got a 2014 VM10ui 5 axis that has been pretty good. The control is weird but fine once you’re used to it, the machine itself has ran well. The coolant tank is too small and the weird scraper conveyor thing are a bad combo if you’re doing a bunch of high speed profiling and making fluffy chips. A five gallon bucket of coolant is practically the difference between being too low to provide sufficient coolant pressure and a huge coolant mess on the floor, so we only run it unattended for a max of 3-4 hours at a time.I'm looking at the vmx42 SRTI anyone got any experience with this also thanks for the feedbackI’m a tech for these machines so I mostly see them when there are problems. I’m not a machinist, I just install and fix them. The 42’s are a nice solid machine, good size and the frames are pretty stiff. The controls can be somewhat glitchy but are so much more user friendly than a fanuc, Siemens, or Mitsubishi controls for someone who isn’t a programmer. Having a rotary in the table and the swivel head as the 5th axis is pretty cool. You have a lot more space than a conventional trunion on a 5 axis. I haven’t seen any issues on the rotary table and have only seen one issue with the swivel head on a machine that was crashed. I believe they are using ibag high speed spindles on them, very nice spindle but also sort a niche and I think the only place to get them serviced is their shop in Connecticut.I run one of their larger models, a 2018 Hurco VMX84 and I love it, the controls are extremely easy once you get used to it, it’s fast to switch over programs and make new ones while it’s still running the old one, as a tool and die maker, it saves me a bunch of time. my only gripes are it does tend to freeze up if you have large NC programs and the newer models are louder due to such a spacious enclosure. It has a second screen where you can draw up your part and when trying to draw it up it can and freeze both screens while the machine still runs. Other than that I love it!Necessary. Protect your $200k machine with the proper tools.Its a must. So many things can go wrong so fast. Why risk it? Couple grand upfront saves tens of thousands in a crashIf the company is willing to get a lathe with that kind of capabilities, sim software should be necessary.NCSIMUL is great for simulation based off of Gcode.Love those screens. The apprentice had a problem with the screen and called me while I was at another shop. Went like this."Hey. Cant see anything on the screen.""Did you try hitting it?"thud"Yep. That sorted it""Ok, bye""Seeya."We had to open the cabinet and apply a heat gun to the CRT. Carefully.Had a service tech at CNC manufacture tell me this on the phone one day when troubleshooting. I reached into cabinet smacked the shit out of a Siemens feed module. Told him I’d been wanting to do that for hours anyway.looks like something out of Falloutlol yeah, when I first started working here I thought it was a death trapMan, VaultTech used to make such good machines, it’s a shame to see how much they’ve stagnated.We just bought a 1988 Hardinge Conquest this year. Older than my son, but still makes a good part. Worth the $5500 I paid for her.What? CNCs did exist back in… [calculating…] WTF, 1981 was 40 years ago?I had a 1978 Ikegai running a Fanuc 5T control back in the 90's. Had a 110 baud teletype to punch tape, then tape reader on the front of the control.Good times.Finally crashed and replaced that old girl in 95.Mmmm the peeling paint from the coolant and everything. I can smell it nowOldest CNC machine at the shop is a 1986 Daewoo Puma with Fanuc 10T.35 years old but still does fine. I am the only one in the shop who doesn't mind running it though. lolThose okuma lathes and mills are truly tough machines. If you maintain them, you’ll have them running for 40+ years.Can't beat the 80s and 90s Japanese iron of Mori and Okuma. Tough as hell.Lol 40?? Try 1934 keyway broach.Me - "They had computer displays in the 60s?"Also me - "Oh wait 40 years ago was the 80s"I occasionally have to run a Nakamura Tome lathe from 1982. Looks about the same condition as this. Still a great machine. Fast, powerful and accurate. Worst thing about running it is there’s no chip conveyor so it needs to be shoveled out manually. No part catcher either.I keep a 37 year old Mazak running at my work (shipyard maintenance guy). We've got some machines from WWII, and a Betts lathe that you can chuck up a 40 foot long propshaft in.I work for FANUC as a service tech and the company will support controls going all the way back. 2000 control w/ DC motors from 1976? We’ll be on-site tomorrow with replacement parts.The only problem is that we keep raising the cost of parts the older they get. A master board for an old 6 control is more than $10,000 now. Complete amplifiers drom that vintage can easily be over $20,000.It used to be that if a customer needed a part, no matter how old, we would get them one. They would start up a small production run for 40 year old parts to make sure we had some in inventory. We are finally getting to the point where some parts have so many obsolete components that they just can’t be recreated anymore.Got a 1978 mori seiki SL3 w yasnac universal control- hooked a btr to the paper tape reader & that puppy out cuts our mazak integrex any day!! 😜Try a B axis feed movement. If it works, you're good. If you're doing 4 axis feed movements, you may have to use inverse time for your feedrate.This ^Consider the same scenario in a five axis machine, does it also has to be programmed in inverse time feed ?When you did a linear move G01 XYZB move did all of axis' ARRIVE at their final destination at the EXACT same time? If so then you have full 4 axis support, if not then you do not.All b axis rotation is around the y. All a axis is around the x. All c axis is around the z. ABC, XYZ.If you've got the manuals, peek in there.With the sinumarek (assuming it's a siemens controller) you need to activate TRAORI for simulations 5x machining.Sinumerik has a manual position function, just tell it to feed move x y z -1” incremental and B 10 degrees in incremental and watch distance to go. If they all stop moving at the same time, they are moving linearly and you have true 4 axis motion capabilities.Thank you all for the valuable comments!As many have mentioned, my own diagnosis was also using position for all 4 axis, and it did well. My question is whether there is any specific way other than this to know if the machine is simultaneous in the 4th axis ?Also trying to program in the 4th axis using an older version of powermill, but it does not support much. It can only program for finishing in 4th axis. I am planning to try nx for this.Try it. Haha! Keep your feed and rapid low so if it does anything weird you don't crash.I believe it's the Siemens. It's super simple, but I feel like there has to be tricks I don't know about. I came from a robodrill where I could open the door and hit cycle start. Just little things that seem simple are sometimes tough on this one.I rarely if ever go into MDA anymore,The TSM through the JOG button, provides a few but meaningful things, tool call up, spindle and or table speeds, G54-G599 in a flash, it’s super handy. There’s also the POSITION button, again through JOG, that’ll position (duh) the head and or table any axis you’ve got.We’ve made a simple HOME program consisting of CYCLE 800() and axis home, so super easy to just EXECUTE that program if needed to clear any swivel cycles that may be active, and just home everything.If it’s a mill / turn style machine, don’t leave turning tools in the spindle if there not in use, there’s a special bladder that locks it and can go bad if just left, if you do leave unattended after a program use M33 to unlock the bladderProbing is a breeze with the animated screen,Hope some of that helps…Thanks. Yeah the tsm is pretty slick. That animated probing is, albeit, stupidly awesome. Good idea on the axis home program. I'm sick of posting an added g53x0y0c0y0.save TRAFOOF; M30; lines in your MDI screen as a "transformation cancel" program as you'll need it when you stop a program in the middle.Wait.... What?! This sounds like something I need.Following... on possibly also getting this unitI have a list of pros and cons if you're interested. I've only been working it 3 months, but so far I like it (but who doesn't love new machine day).On my semi CNC lathe (no probes or anything like that) I just load up some stock and turn the OD a bit of the tool I need the offset for. Then you measure what you cut with a micrometer and do the math with your X readout on the screen to set that tools offset. Then G54 X offset is usually 0 as all tools are set relative to the centerline.But i’m sure people here will have better ideas and referencesThank you, I'll look into this when I get back. Much appreciated, and sorry for the late reply.u/iDvorak is correct. I run/program a TL2, without probes. Once your tool is in, cut on a spare piece of stock and measure it to set your tool x offset. Your G54 X should most often be 0.Thanks, I'll look into it. Sorry for the late reply.I see it like a sentence honestlyM6 (call a tool) T9 (tool 9)Whereas the opposite just flows weird to meT calls on their own stage the tool though, so I've always seen it as: T9 (stage T9) M6 (put it in the spindle). Also from using lathes where you call the tool and the offset, like T909, I got used to it this way.TOOL CALL 9 (it's one button and 9) I love Heidenhain9Start.Siemens for the win.T9M6I do this because my Mazak has a quick changer and the standard tool change code is T9M6T21 or whatever tool I'm using after T9. So when I'm changing a single tool I just leave that last part off.Depends on how I'm feeling on that day...Now THIS is a chaotic individualuhhhh g116t9fuck I really hope there's other okuma guys here.Let me guess you run an okumaI run an MB4000H and that's the code I'd have to useDepends on the machine. On the mori lathes I ran it would be T0909 M06. On the Siemens controllers there was soft keys for loading tools.T09M06 I need hugsT09;M06;inputCycle start.My machine would NOT like thatM six-tee nineT6 M9Sweet! Operated 3 of those for a couple of years. 2 hsk63 25k rpm and 1 hsk100 12k(?) rpm. My shop had them with heidenhein mill+, hopefully yours wont. Siemens control seems better.Is that the spindlehead your machine is equiped with? Ours has some early variant that was quite limitedAh okey, sounds like you are quite sawwy compared to me. Wouldnt know where to begin when creating a postprocessor. Have any usefull links? Would be interesting to know how it works.Only operated/set up. My shop is in aerospace and does everything offline. Programing, verifying and creating the posts.Hope it works out for you!Awesome! I run a DMU 105 monoblock and after using the Siemens controller, I haven’t found anything that I like nearly as muchSo come Monday, you'll have earned your "Run DMC" T-shirt!How one earth did you manage to afford this? What do you guys build? aerospace?You setting it up or just operating? That looks classy right there. I’m just starting to learn how to setup a 3 axis.What are your parts like? For me, it would be a choice between Esprit TNG and hyperMILL, with part complexity being the determining factor.I don't need to sell you on Esprit. It's probably the most versatile product on the market. The feature recognition is pretty great, the amazing API, etc... I would like to point out that for a milling application, you should be looking at TNG. When I tried it, it was really buggy, but they have had a lot of time to iron it out.I used Camworks for a few months. It is not for me. If you want lots of control for programming complex parts, it will disappoint. It can throw toolpath a parts FAST, but I am not making huge quantities of really simple parts. And if I was, I'd go back to Esprit TNG.I own a seat of hyperMILL. It is a fantastic niche 5 axis milling software. It really excels at putting out high quality 5 axis toolpath quickly. The simulation is good, the posting is good. They tend to be the market leader in a lot of cool 5 axis technology. What hyperMILL doesn't do well is simple parts. The database is very okay. There is no API. Automation tools are clunky to say the least. That said; if you spend 90% of your programming capacity tackling those really tricky parts, and only 10% on 2 axis BS; you should probably go with the software that handles tricky things better.This guy said exactly what I was going to say. I worked with Hypermill, Esprit, Mastercam, and Gibbs. The only thing I would add is you turning capabilities. If you have twin spindle twin turret, or Swiss. I think Esprit is a no brainier.We were a feature-cam shop 2 Years ago when I started.Full 5 axis seats to drive a pair of Hermle's. The two programmers/operators made good parts day in and day out but it sure looked like a mess when i watched them programming. They had long since been off maintenance after they got just terrible support from Delcam (2015 purchase date mind you) so they were on their own.Literally making new "setups" for every operation to get the machine spindle normal to the surface, funky settings and using tool-paths that didn't make sense because it was 'what worked.'But they got it done.Went to Autodesk to see what it would take to get in with them on 2 seats full 3d mill and one 5 ax and it was about 18k/yr subscription. And unlike our current 2015 license we own--if you stoup paying that sub you literally cant post your files. So thats a NO.We brought in Hypermill instead last year, 50k for a single 5ax seat with simulation/training/posts for the Hermles and about 4,500/yr maint.Its been going great---but at another 18k per seat for just 3d milling on a network license, and mediocre lathe support, with 15% of that price as maint. PER SEAT. We're looking at another 36K up front PLUS posts for our 3ax machines with 4th ax rotaries, plus training plus another 5k a year in maint-- it's a lot to swallow.We have MLC Cad/Cam (Mastercam Reseller) local to us and we had a meeting recently. Its several thousand cheaper per 3d seat, you get their lathe seats at 50% off when you buy milling, they offer a *limited* free post library, they have applications guys literally living in town (maybe were lucky we have Boeing, General Dynamics, McDonald Doug all in town among others). Your really have to go looking to find someone bithcing about the 2020 release, while limited i think that bodes well.I'm excited to see what their apps guy can show us when we get a demo set up in a few weeks time.Not ruling out Hypermill for our 3 ax stuff but man that's some serious money to be spending.I have used surfcam recently and can say I was not a fan at all. Very un user friendly. It did everything you need it to do but not in an easy to do manner.I'm also not a fan of MasterCam - I think it is hugely overpriced for what it delivers.You sound like a big enough shop to justify the cost of PowerMill - not just the software, but taking advantage of the customization. Then again, that's probably true for most programs.As a guy who designs and machines, I like SolidWorks CAM - i.e. CAMWorks (because they got bought by Dassault. It's a single, consistent workflow for me, and part updates are across all functions, which is beautiful for me. But as a CAM software, I can't say one thing that makes it any better than anyone elses. Also customizable, and the templates are good of set up and used correctly, but everyone else has those features too.Powermill is around $700 a month, if you want to try it out without going whole-hog. If you're doing lots of simultaneous 5-axis stuff, it's a really excellent option, far easier to use than Mastercam. I'm not sure what it's scripting language is for post-processors, however, which may be an issue or not.I run a aerospace shop. The owner purchased surfcam previously, but chose not to upgrade last go around.Had a machinist leave and hired his replacement. New machinist had zero exp with surfcam. Called hexagon to get him a weeks training. Quoted $9500 for one week.Called mastercam reseller to quote us. 2 mill seats and a lathe seat ~$43k.New machinist looked into Fusion 360. Liked it. Tried it on their 30 day trial. Found it worked better for him than surfcam. Bought a 3 yr license for $1500.In the meantime I called Gibbs, the rep I spoke with stated they'd be in the Mastercam ballpark - more or less the same price is what he told me.In my experience Mastercam did a great job getting their software adopted by the schools. Gets the next batch of machinist comfortable with their software.I personally dont care what we use - just has to make financial sense and get parts through the shop. These software companies are all acting like they're the next google.We're not running much 4th axis and have zero 5 axis for now. We may have to revisit this at that time. If so, the decision still comes down to a cost benefit analysis.Fusion 360 has never let me down, I have seen good results from Esprit but i have not used it personally. Siemens NX is hot garbage, I dont use it but the shop I work at currently does and a lot of the time facing and slab milling perimeters I end up writing my own programs...I feel like your shop is on another level in comparison to the shop I work in but for what it's worth...I have been a mastercam user for nearly 7 years now and I still can't believe what they charge for it. In my opinion it's waaayyyy over priced.Our two seats of Mastercam don't have 3d milling and to upgrade they wanted like 30k or something rediculous. Downloaded Fusion 360 to get some stuff done that required 3d profiling and was blown away at the value. I have used it in combination with Mastercam for a few years now and I must say I'm very impressed.If I were to start my own shop I would absolutely use Fusion 360. Granted I'm giving it a ton of credit purely for the value or what you get for the money.Now that being said we still use Mastercam 99% of the time because that's what we've always used. That's what all of our existing files are in. We are a low volume production shop. And the guy I work with hates computers and learning new software.Also we don't have the fancy machines that you have. Just a few 3 axis VMCs here.Good luck! I've always heard great things about hypermill but man it's not cheap!I would do evaluations of new packages targeted at the 5 axis machine and the types of parts you'll make with it. Then your question will be how many seats you can afford beyond what's needed for this machine.Getting rid of Mastercam because the sales rep sucks might be a step too far if the learning curve on the new software is going to inhibit your work.Just stick with mastercam. It's better. You'll see. I've tried the other softwares. They're not as good. You'll find more issues with esprit. It's not great. Mastercam does setup sheets too. It's not difficult. Maybe your salesman sucked. That happens. But don't write off the entire software because of a crappy salesman. But you know, maybe you just want something simpler. Try bobcad. It's just as disappointing as the other guys but less expensive.Gotta say, that post came off pretty condescending. Are you a MC reseller?I really can't believe you're lumping bobcad in with Esprit. I used Esprit for years. Its better than Mastercam. By a long shot. The posts are WAY better. The support is WAY better. It processes faster. And if the salesman, who is our line of support sucks, then why are we paying for maintenance? I don't want a software with shitty support.What are these issues with Esprit? Because there are far more issues with Mastercam. Mastercam is out the door, and the shop will be better for it. What I was seeking, was opinions on moving forward. It's 2020 and one of Mastercams huge revisions they're bragging about is two air regions??? What a fucking joke.Edit Second read, maybe it wasn't THAT condescending. However, still was a bit off-putting. We need something more complex. Not simpler. Esprit was able to handle the complex parts far more easily. Perhaps myself and my coworker just worked better with it. But MC is pretty unanimously disliked here in our shop.I like mastercam too. We have really nice simple setup sheets. You can customize how they come out. I've not come across a part that was too difficult to program. 4th axis work does kind of suck but hopefully they will improve it. Lathe side of it sucks too imo. But for simple parts and 3d milling I really like it. I like the dynamic tool paths a lot tooMastercam is falling behind and it not worth the money..Plus support is shitPlease for the love of god... Make shure that you got your postproccesor figured out because otherwise your expensive new cam program is useless...That's part of our problem. And our reseller had been very little help.Cimitron. Nuff saidAt our shop we use Mastercam, UG, and Cimitron. I've only had experience with using Mastercam and that was only for school. Now what little programing I do is hand punching stuff into the conversational Hurco programming.Okuma and Mori Seiki lathes > Mazak Integrex and Variaxis > Nakumura Tome NTY3 mill-turn > Okuma and Doosan mills (don't remember models) > Hermle C40,22,and 42 millsAlso some random Haas and SWs in there.I've been really lucky to work on some nice machines...That's a lot of machines haha I would like to work on Okuma , heard they are greatHAASHAASStarted on some old okumas. LB15, and LB25. Then on Nakamura Tome, Tw10, tw20 and tw30. Doosan puma 240 and 400. Mazak quick turns and intergrex. Various haas lathes and mills. Don’t think my company can decide which manufacturer to stick with. Difficult sometimes to flick your brain into the correct machine.I can imagine , when I changed company and switched from Sinumerik to Hurco i had some trouble figuring some basic stuff out especially when it came to troubleshooting the machine Sometimes I have to go run something on Heller with Heidenhain but thank God it's only when we run some big number jobsStarted with fanuc, still with fanuc.Yeah I heard they are one of the best never used it thoStarted with Okuma (LB15 with OSP3000 control) and am now on Sinumerik 840Dsl and Mazak SmoothX.840Dsl ? I did use 840D but what does the "sl" stand for ?Started on Heidenhain but didn't do much there. Then Fanuc, programming with Alphacam. Then Siemens 840D using ShopTurn conversational programming. I like the simplicity of Fanuc if I can program in CAM. To program on the machine Siemens is nicer. Fanuc has more buttons to do things directly without going into a menu.My first experience was in school with Okuma OSP and Haas controls.Now I work with a lot of Fanuc, Mori Seiki MSX501 and Hitachi Seiki Seicos controls.1981 Hurco KMB1 1985 Hurco TM5Congrats manThe device beside is automatic bar stock feeder?Correct. This machine also has a conveyor for machines to come out on as well just below the bar feeder.She looks lonley in there by herself.Dude. I've helped start a couple shops and based on what I see here, this might be the smartest startup I've seen.Yeah? Why is that?I figured I would buy once cry once and get the best thing I could afford.The next thing is a 5axis mill.Congratulations!Sweet.We have LNS feeders as well, they work great.Pneumatic or servo lift?What controls does the Gildemeister have?I'm a mill guy so forgive me lol.It has an air line so I'm going to say pnumatic.It has a Siemens control. Do you have this lathe as well?Congrats! GL!Going top shelf. You da man!GM made absolutely cracking machines. We have an NEF running custom threads all day every day.Congrats bro! I recently started my own shop as well, but got a mill instead. REALLY wishing I had a lathe now. So much work I have to pass on because I’m not capable :/This lathe also has live tooling on it so I should be able to handle some small mill work as long as I can hold it in a chuck or collet.Very nice! Jakshimash the machine is pink notI thought it was a swiss machine for a minute.Congrats! Gotta love a new shop, so much space for activities.Nice. Twin65. Good machine from Bielefeld. What control is on it?SiemensHell yeah man I’ve been looking into starting a shop now myself for a couple years and posts like this give me inspirationI work with a dugard 450 mini mill, pretty decent machine for what it is. Biggest issue with it is the siemans 802d controller on it. Wouldn't have any idea about haas.Haven't worked with the other one but the Haas is pretty great. I learned a lot on it when I started out, the controls are pretty simple and the vps options are awesome for doing quick simple things. Pretty durable, I've crashed the shit out of mine a couple times and never hurt anything too bad. Space is decent, but if you can find a tm2 for around the same price I'd go for that over a tm1It depends on whether you're looking at new or used, and which country you're located in. I've never heard of Dugard, as they seem to be out of the UK. Taiwan makes some decent stuff, usually better than what comes from the mainland.Rather like a joke in a Pirates movie; Haas is, without a doubt, the worst machine I've ever heard of. But I have heard of them. They're everywhere in the US, so parts and service shouldn't be an issue if you end up needing either. Part of their reputation is likely due to how prevalent they are. If you sell millions of machines and have a few hundred or low-thousands bad ones, people are going to hear more negativity versus a company that only sold a few thousand machines total.Either machine is going to be plenty for a first non-hobby machine. If money is no object, and space is no issue, try to buy more machine than you think you're ever going to need, because someday you may wish you had that extra work envelope, or the few more horsepower/higher rpm on that spindle, etc. Then consider parts & service availability above other factors.Where are you located, how much floor space do you have, and what do you have available for power? (3 phase, or single phase /amps)?Any mill is better than none, but no payments means you get to keep your machine during lean times. I encourage you to buy used and pay cash. This is a feast and famine industry.If you have space for a Fadal 88 4020, I will make you a great deal. I'm located in central Oregon. She is a great machine, but we are upgrading to a faster newer machine that realistically the Fadal will outlive.thanks for all the replies folks. im in Ireland and space is not really an issue and i have 3 phase power. the haas is 2008 and the dugard is older but not sure how old. the haas interfaces well with cad/cam which is what i want so i think i will go with that. i will update here if all goes to plan.It only really gets more expensive from there. You could check into SolidCam but there's no way it's more affordable than $3k.Mill-turns are an expensive tool, I don't see how you get value out of budget software to drive them.I just got the invoice for the Solidcam post processor for our Nakamura Y axis lathe and it was $3000.If you think that $3k is expensive then you should probably just keep writing programs at the machine or by hand.Agreed you would fall over if you saw what we pay for one license of Siemens NXAgreed. We use NX and CATIA it’s ridiculous.I use fusion 360. Works like a treat. They don't support full machine simulation for millturns yet, but that should be coming in the next few months.There is no good optionComing from someone who used to sell CAMWorks, the 4 axis lathe package is way more than $3k. The base CW package, which includes limited 3-axis mill, and 2-axis lathe (don’t add them together, that’s not how it works) is $5k. I believe the package to use the Y-axis is $7.5k.. not including subscription cost. Be wary of someone quotes you 3k for mill-turn for CAMWorksThank you. Obviously Im a babe in the woods.I have heard some things about esprit being ok, I use fusion 360. Not an easy thing to do. Crashed the st20 y a few times. Getting a expirenced guy on your machine can go a long way.My company is purchasing the dynamic fixture offset option and going that direction instead of using tilted working plane, but i want to figure it out to try and learn something about it.So... are you getting G54.2 and G54.3 -- Rotary Table Dynamic Fixture Offset? Or G54.4 -- work piece setting error.G54.2/G54.3 is legacy and doesn't work with TCP and 3D cutter-comp (3DCC). IMO, not the way to go.G68.2 is the modern fanuc equivalent to cycle800 in SiemensHave you referred to this infamous document yet?https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/fanuc-g682-5-axis-tilted-work-planes-tim-markoski/P1 Q321 should make it so that it rotates the c axis around z first, then about the b axis around the y axis and leaving x alone.Referring to the G68.2 P1 parameters...(see fanuc manual or the linkedin page)Q321, Rotate around Z. Rotate Y, Rotate X.I0. J90. K 90.so reading your code (assuming table/table 5ax)... Rotate C axis 0. Tilt B 90 (I'm assuming Tilt axis is aligned with machine Y). Rotate C axis 90.So you're not leaving X alone.For some backstory my work already implements tcpc and would just use dfo or dwo as a way to use canned cycles. We plan on jusr leaving tcpc on at all times other than when we plan on drilling or tapping and just turning on dwo instead at that point. Its how we have our other 5 axis machines set up, besides our haas vf4ss which would be in dwo at all times and just turning on tcpc when we need to do some live milling.I have not looked at that document yet but will give it a good look tomorrow at work, i appreciate the hook up on that!And yeah i guess i should have mentioned that i had meant in this specific situation i would not be rotating around x instead of x being left alone, if that still doesn’t work the way i intended then i will go try to follow the document to transform the offset with it as intended.Edit: and i guess i should say that i know x will translate when the offset is altered with g68.2, but just did not see a reason to perform a rotation with I in the code.Also, yes we will be buying the g54.2 option*Korean poopoo.Love it, i use a puma 5100lm its so great.Mazak and Mazatrol are hands down the easiest CNC and programming software I’ve ever used. We have 3 Haas machines in our shop and they were pretty intimidating at first, but I’m slowly learning the ways of G&M coding. I’ve heard of Doosan but never actually operated one.I run a doosan DNM 5700 and it's really quite easy to use once you get used to the fanuc control.at least its not a haas or a shenyangI ran a Doosan Vt900 for a couple years. Not a bad machine- capto tooling, plenty of power, standard Fanuc control but very slow turret indexing. It also had a tendency to alarm out when the rapids were at 100%, even after the spindle was warmed-up. But it’s a 1/2 step up from some of the Taiwanese machines I’ve run.The shop I’m at is switching mostly to doosans. I’m running 2600s and 4100s daily. We use strictly use CAM here though. No conversational. After learning the control I actually prefer them to the mazaks we have.Doosan is Korean. You one of those Mazafools?I would inject Mazak and Okuma into my veins. Trying to inject doosan would alarm out, not explain the alarm in full context, so I’d have to go through 3 different menus to reset back to stage 1.Wish all job ads were this goodI own a chinese mini 12" bench lathe and the other day I made a spinning top that spins for over 3 minutes.Do I need an interview or would you like me to just turn up? (Would have to be next Tuesday though because I have plans for a long weekend)From the sidebarIf you are looking to post a job opening, our only requirement is that you post the salary or hourly wage of the job posting.What kind of experience are you looking for? What would be the starting pay?Got anything for the less experienced?For example someone who... Can weld Great with metal fab Some experience with manual machines. Dedicated and very hard working.High school student on Apprenticeship here. I've ran HBM, radial drills, Lathes, Knee mills, CNC Haas mill, Mazak Lathe, Swiss Lathe, 4 and 5 axis machines, EDM. I'm currently working on my programming skills. What kind of CAD/CAM software do you use? What kind of school would you being willing to send someone to? I'm more interested in the CNC machinist/Programmer title. Looking for more experience and opportunity. I'm not interested in push button jobs for the long term.Definitely and 110% voting for a DMG Mori.If your budget allows for it, Hermle, DMG mori, Grob or Alzmetall.Thanks for the comments guys. I’ll let you know what we end up buying.Grob. Best of the best.Depends on what you want. HAAS is not amazing but good and a decent price. If you wanna to produce lots of parts a multi spindle SW is a good way to goWe have a few haas’s currently, they are not robust/rigid enough for our liking. Bosses have stipulated they don’t want to go down the haas route. We’ve been looking at DMG MORI , Okuma and doosan. Any thoughts?I mean it really depends. Mori, Okuma, or Maatsura could all be the right answer.Just gimme some headBruh, dont listen to these comments, its a data server card, basically a CF card in the back of the control, call a subprogram with M198 P0001 whatever, seach up the manual to configure it, its really good, lets you run huge programs.That’s what I’m after! ThanksI think Fanuc sells proprietary software to use data server. I know siemens does and man is it expensive."Holey block op" good to know I'm not the only one with this naming systemSearching using "fanuc 16 data server" told me that it's likely an ethernet connection, that the data server is likely an FTP server of some description and that there are loads of PDF documents and manuals describing some if not all of it.I'm not familiar with the machine you have, but if it were my problem to solve, I'd download the manual and start there.Who is this Manual guy?We have a Fryer MB-Q at work and it was painful at first to learn but now I love it. I’ve never found any good general documentation. Are you starting from scratch? Do you know how to set work and tool offsets?For all intents and purposes, I am starting with a very basic understanding. I understand what tooling offsets and work offsets are and know the basics of CAM programming with Fusion 360I’m in Northeast PA. If you were close, I’d give you an in person demo. Message me with your e-mail or phone number and I’ll help you out any way I can. I was toying with doing some YouTube videos of the Siemens control but I haven’t gotten there yet.Are you comping height or diameter? Are you using EIA or mazatrol?Each tool will have a height and diameter; usually H & D.... Like this;T01 X0.0Y0.0 H01 D01The h & d usually correspond to tool call, but newer controls usually allow calling tools like this tooT01 X0.0Y0.0 H147 D147That calls the new diameter and/or tool height for different desires.... Just make sure in D147 you have the corrected diameter.....Machine manufacturers dictate the allowed range of calls.Make sense?It' been a while, but on Mazak Fusion or newer don't you get multiple comps on the tool data page? I thought it was like a Siemens where you always call D1 or H1 regardless of tool number. On a Siemens additional offsets require you to define additional cutting edges.I swear that's how Mazak works too.when a lathe guy runs a millIt sounds like you are describing macro programming to me unless I am missing something. Most fanuc or haas controls will already run macro b programs.Pretty much anybody serious as CAM.Maybe for the Hobbyists?Hobbyists also have cam these days. Fusion 360 does all of it and is free for hobbyists.If you wanna do it for fun or personal use, great. If you want to see it widely used, not so great. Inertia is strong in the machine worldCould you please add an UNDO G-code?I wish there was a putter-back-onner tool. Just gotta add a few tenths to this diameter here...I'd love it, but it's gonna be hard to put a custom g-code interpreter on a machine. If that's not your goal then it's a lot easier but also less useful.Maybe for the hobbyist game but I don't expect you'll get much traction in the pro realm. What I could really use at work is a g code interpreter, that can translate the language of one machine to another, handle a wide variety of languages/M codes, allow for workpiece rotation about a selectable axis, and allow tool number references, and be end-user editable. I've done this for specific machine to machine translations using vba, but I've got 4 5 axis portal mills and 2 5 axis hbm's, I don't want to write 18 different translators.Interpolated TurningEither a built in cycle or the spindle has to have the option to be position controlled.Heidenhain: Cycle 290Siemens: Cycle 959Rim jobI’m pretty new to machining, what’s the benefit to this as opposed to just using a normal lathe?some part cant be put in lathes. there are horizontal boring machine, but this machine has a milling head to do a lot more feature. the benefit is that you can turn and millI mean it’s not ideal. But is there anything to stop you doing the math and work out the RPM (very low) to do this matching Up to the feed rate on a 3 axis?You'd need to use closed loop control to drive the position based on spindle encoder, otherwise it will quickly drift and you'd be lucky to get two or three full rotations.What this program looks like, and does it work for a standard 3-axis milling machine?Pretty much only if your spindle has a servo and can be indexedHow I feel if I was a turret and my workers were the spindle.Okuma calls it turn cut.That looks like a SORALUCE, I forget what they call it, but they can even do that with non-run shapes, like single point broaching an odd shaped o-ring groove.OSP can do any shape as well, different option than turn cut but it's the same same.I've known it as orbit machining...I've heard it called Hale machining which I don't believe is tied to any MTB's. Different manufactures all have their own name(s). Okuma calls it three different things where your grooving, boring or just synchronizing the spindle with linear axes. FANUC calls it Cs control. Basically you turn your spindle into a rotary axis. There are canned cycles usually which allow turning and grooving. It's similar software to hobbing.Seems like a U axis would do this better for round boring. Also it would be a lot faster. Got a Trevisan GT where I work with a 16 inches of U axis travel so it gets all the big boring jobs. Still looks cool thoughWhat's the benefit of this over just milling a circle out with an end mill?In this gif they are machine a gasket face for a spiral wound gasket. Usually performed on a lathe, there is a specific surface finish required that cannot be done with a milling cutter.Mazak calls it orbit machining.Offset boringTurn cut, according to Okuma. We had an MA-600 capable of turn-cut. We used it for undercuts on a couple fluid ends, and some parts that called for "phonographic" finishes.Meh, it's just the tip...How can a tip break? Smashed it manually?Yeah, apprentice manually moved machine in -Z.I broke one when calibrating the probe length for the first time on my machine made in 2019. The instruction book that came with the probe had instructions for pre-NGS controls, but did not specify this. When I hit cycle start, the probe slowly jogged into the table, until the shaft shattered.$130 is what mine cost meYou pay too much for them, buy direct from renishawCould be worse.The fuck you do that for?The best book for everything.https://www.amazon.com/Peter-Smid-Programming-Resources-Hardcover/dp/B01FMVOJOYIf you respond to this saying "but I don't use fanuc" you probably don't have the associated skills required to be using macros.CNCcookbookThis is the book you want.Mike Lynch - Parametric programming for CNC machine tools and touch probesScore some old renishaw probé books, or in cnc zone check out sequential serial number routines. Lots of if/thens and switching between abs and inc. The probé books will hook with up with simple dynamic shifts based off known variables. Way easier than it sounds.Hmm, this or that Tormach 440 I have been eyeing?What kind of tolerances can something like this hold?Yes, the bed size isn't half bad and all, but can it do rigid tapping?Sorry its a little small for me.My wife would definitely not let me put that in (on top of?) the house.I'd have to see it run first...How is a 2011 machine that must have cost millions and required a special footing, building and thousands of hours of skilled technicians and millwrights to set it up for sale in 2017?This makes no sense to me at all and seems like either a thoughtless waste or a some kind of financial fraud was perpetrated.3 axis w/ "live" tooling.I'll bet that's more rigid and accurate than the live tooling in my dmg.All my "dumb" ideas end up on reddit.a man of classDo NOT put an M08 in there anywhere.That would get messyI mean, I've seen power feed and power slides run by drills, but this.This is genius.There's an actual mass-produced hobby product that does this on a small scale, Proxxon 24098. It's designed specifically so that you can put your Proxxon die grinder in a lathe toolpost and have live tooling for crossdrilling and stuff like that.How straight could you get the drill indicated in?I run a similar sort of setup and I will get the holes to within 0.1mm without much difficulty, once you have the jig made up it's pretty easy to get setup again for the repeat jobs.I'm not sure if I should be impressed or upset by this.love itI'm stealing this idea by the way.They are way ahead of the tormach you typically find in the home shop but for the $30k+ you drop on a new Syil, I'd look for used Japanese iron to work with a budget if you have the space and power.That is my issue Space. I can probably swing power with a RPC but I just can't really fit anything bigger. This size machine seams to go really fast on the used market as well. I was thinking of something like a robodrill but I just couldn't make it work.I have an x7 on single phase 220, bought new in 2019. They have made alot of changes since then so don't know if they still do single phaseYou can get the LNC controller which can work on single phase. Siemens controller requires 3 phaseI don't think the X7 runs on single phase. Look into that.Other than that, I think it's an excellent machine to have in your garage.I sent a request for power requirements to the sales guy. I think its a 3hp spindle motor so if I need a RPC it should not be more than 10hpSiemens controls are good what year are we talking I've been on 2018 and up and man got to love itI am going to make the assumption that you are using TCPC for full five axis machining and DWO for 3+2 positional five axis work. You said the MRZP calibration is good and that when using DWO your parts are good. This coupled with the fact that your parts are drifting more and more out of tolerance as the day goes on leads me to believe that there is heat building up in the gear driven rotary motors during full five axis motion. This could be causing the center of rotation to drift from where it was set during the MRZP calibration. The thermal compensation on the machine may not have sensors in the proper areas to detect and compensate for this. I would do an MRZP in the morning and then again in the afternoon after continuously running the machine with both rotary axes moving and record the difference in center of rotation. Feel free to message me for any help on this.https://www.haascnc.com/service/troubleshooting-and-how-to/how-to/umc---mrzp-test-cut-kit---ad05450.htmlMaybe a fine tune calibration of MRZP is in order. I have heard of people getting UMC's much more accurate following this methodI have been lucky to have our UMC be generally "fine enough" so just typical MRZP probing has gotten me by. Sorry I can't be of more help.Did you guys manage to identify (and hopefully fix) the issue?Unfortunately no. Machine is still sitting here. I thought I was getting onto something but unfortunately our hfo no longer wants to work with us on the issue. They insist that there is nothing wrong with the machine and there isn’t anything to fix. That due to the control being limited that .01” of run out is the best this machine can do.We opened a return process on the machine but was denied due to the machine being a week out of warranty.I guess I wasn’t smart enough. But neither is our hfo because .01” of positional accuracy is bullshit and this machine was holding sub thou accuracy 3 months agoWondering if there’s any update on this?Came across this doing some research on another Haas 5 axis related applications issue I'm working on right now.These things need to be checked by an experienced person. (not someone at haas, not your tech)-Alignment (geometry, centerlines of rotary axis in relation to the linear ones)-Probe calibration-MRZP-Test blockI get that it seemed to go bad over night but still, shouldn't be too hard for someone who knows their stuff to narrow this down in a day or so.Remember, the OMP40 isn't very accurate on non-perpendicular surfaces like the calibration artifact so don't expect to get it within a few thousandths on the first try.Ya we had about 10 different guys out here looking at this machine. It’s running parts now thankfully but the whole process took about 4 months.In this process we have made contacts with 6 other shops in our area that have the exact same issues we have been having. And what we gather is that it’s a bug with thermal compensation that HAAS doesn’t have a fix for and doesn’t sound like they are working on.What our HFO came up with was doing a 2 hour warmup cycle then the mrzp calibration followed by making the haas test block with their tools and their program to dial in the mrzp offsets. This gets the mrzp calibration set to a warm machine.We have to run the same warmup cycle every day to make good parts there after.It’s unfortunate but it’s the only thing we can do.I'm assuming they've done a centre of rotation calibration etc? Ask them what their thought process is so far. You're the client if you want to be kept informed, ask them for an explanation of what they've tried and what they know. Most clients don't care and just want to be told it's fixed.Oh I’ve been involved in the whole process. Machine has been leveled and geometry has been checked half a dozen times now. Thermal compensation has been ruled out but the machine is still making bad parts. I’m the only variable they want to blame even though my programs were making awesome parts up to a month ago.RemindMe! 10 daysDo an MRZP on it.So I may have spoke too soon. Even features using dwo are walking farther and farther out of position. Originally, the post I’ve been using, was utilizing tcpc even for 3+1 and 3+2 operations. I had made parts with this post for 8-10 months no problem. But all of a sudden, without making changes, this all happens.Mrzp is dead nuts on from beginning of the day to the end of the day within a few tenths which I’m not even certain if the probe is that accurate.We have laser temperature probed all rotaries and ball screws and nothing gets warmer than 75 degrees.Ballbar test was inconclusive from beginning of the day to the end of the day.Machine is a solo machine on its cement pad. Cement is 12in reinforced 5000psiThat's Haas quality.I'm not trying to be shitty or unhelpful. The shop I was working at "upgraded" (really more of a sidegrade in a lot of situations) by replacing almost all of our machines with Haas machines. Mostly 5-axis.It made sense at the time. We increased our capabilities in a lot of ways and learned all new techniques. But we were constantly battling accuracy issues and repair issues. I think we had 1 out of 10 machines just work.Haas makes a lot of money by pushing sales on the distributors, making their end of year goals with crazy discounts, and leaving the reseller dealing with the issues. And it seems like repairs and applications engineers get payed pretty poorly (unless they work for themselves).Hopefully you get your issues sorted, but it could be good to explore other options that will better suit your needs. We did, after a while, and it's night and day.Do the calibration test cut recommended by the other user.Change nothing, and cut several parts consecutively. Add a probing cycle to the program to check the location of all faces within the program.If the software checks good, and the temperature isn't changing (although I suspect that's what it really is) then something else may have moved. The biggest thing you need to check is how consistent the problem is.Secondly, MRZP only calculates the distance from home to the average position of each rotary axis. Each rotary axis has a slight offset from each other that MRZP doesn't calculate by itself. The only way to verify that number is to make a test cut. That actually checks the kinematics of the machine.A friend of mine at our local machine dealer made a great series deep-diving into 5 axis setups. The videos are worth a watch. They only need your company email for statistic purposes (who's watching the videos)https://www.productivity.com/webinars/maximizing-your-5-axis-machine-3-part-series-part-one-considerations-to-meet-your-expectations/To start off you weren’t clear how much off the parts are. There is a big difference between tenths and thousandths, so what do you consider bad? First try to remember the specifics of when it started cutting bad parts. Was it cutting different parts before? Was it really overnight that the parts came out bad. Some new Haas machines can software update, or have the parameters hiccup during power on. Check to make sure your comps are there for the B and C axis. They can be found in the parameters tab on the right most tab. If they are empty that is a problem. Try to remember if any software updates were performed in the past before the issue started, ask your HFO for history. Set up a test to check for thermal growth in the Z axis. If it is found, parameters can be changed by the HFO to get thermals to within tenths. PS. I know a LOT of operators that say that they didn’t crash a machine, and then when shown the proof they respond. “Ohh that was just a bump””oh it just broke a tool””ohh I hit feed hold, but had to reset for some reason”. Stuff like that will cause a UMC to cut thousandths off, and any error ,at least,doubles when using 4th and 5th axis.So we are making clutch baskets in a sense. There are some rectangular pockets that are spaced equally around a central bore. The center of the bore is our work offset. Literally, from on day to the next I was running parts where I was holding under .0005 TIR to the bore to not being able to hold .015 TIR. Parts are checked via CMM. To further add to detail of this, total distance between the pockets can be held and the slot width can be held both within a .001Haas has all of our error reports. Reports were gathered via our hfo and sent to California. So if I crashed they would be yelling at me that it’s my fault. Our tech also has looked over the rails to see if he could find physical evidence of a crash. Nothing.I get it. I’m the shop manager, I see it all the time. It’s hard to trust an operator. It’s another thing to trust an operator that’s making a redit post about a machine. But I’m not exaggerating or lying.I confirmed with our tech that the machine never got an update. Machine had the same software on it that had when the machine was first set up. In settings, automatic updates are turned off. So an update should have been stoped anyways. If not we would have seen it. Since the original service call, hfo has done a software update as “bug fix” but this has obviously not solved the issue.Draw yourself a few models with the most ridiculous weird features and worst ones you can think of, then program it.I'm going through a similar journey currently.Our shop just switched from Inventor/HSM Cam to Mastercam and I'm trying to figure it out from square one.You've probably looked up the usual Mastercam learning places like Caminstructor. I've ended up trying (and later subbing to) Streamingteacher and found that they had pretty good content. It was incredibly valuable for me. There is a ton of free stuff on there to get you going. You can use their provided models to start figuring things out.Caminstructor was up there on my list, but the annual fee was a bit scary. They have a bunch of very interesting Youtube videos too.The forums at emastercam are another great resource. We also get access to all their ecourses through our reseller, as long as we keep up with the maintenance. But I found them to be a bit less... helpful. (It's more of an "Go here, click this, do this" type of tutorial.)If at all possible, ask for some sample programs from the new place and study the everliving crap out of them. That will help you understanding how they approach part and tool setups. Maybe you can even get their existing posts and try to reverse engineer those.While you have the HLE, a couple suggestions:-Study the crap out of the wireframe and transform functions, that will come up constantly. The gnomon will take some getting used to.-Learn how to use Planes and Levels. Start dialing in your organization within the file. Label toolpaths and organize levels in a way that would make sense when you review the file a year down the road.-Figure out the configuration and options menu now. Find out where mastercam stores its settings and posts. Know where all the functions are located.-Figure out how to import solids from other cad suites into Mcam and how to position them for your setup. (if it's an option) That will usually be your first step when making programs.-Now is also a fantastic time to learn how to build tool libraries, adjust tool geometries and import 3d tool assemblies from Sandvik/Machinecloud-Generally speaking, i find the actual toolpathing relatively straightforward. It's all the other crap that slows me down massively. Mastercam often isn't very descriptive in its error messages and often you'll end up fighting with parameters and geometry just to have it display something.That being said, while Mastercam does have its share of flaws (All CAM suites do), it will feel quite intuitive once you get used to it. Just stick with it and keep practicing.Best thing to do if you’re time limited for actual hands on is videos. Immerse yourself in MasterCAM tutorials, along with tips/tricks. It is basically a way to force your brain to start thinking the MasterCAM way... good trick for learning a new skill really.That person is like oh God please don't let this thing crash I want to liveGlorious leader takes one look at the part and denies it before a cut is even made. “It will be 2 tenths out”. Your cabbage privileges are revoked for lifeOr when you get a surprise visit from the owners of the company you’re manufacturing parts for..."If you think you can do better then why am I making them?"Always keep in mind, the boss man can't legally kill you for fucking up.I see you are unfamiliar with Best KoreaPrepare for S C R U T I N YMy boss doesn't know much about machining so anything's fine as long as I play it cool and tell him that it's supposed to sound like cutlery in a blender.If it’s North Korea that thing isn’t even runningThis is the truest comment here. This is a photo shoot not a facility inspection.Ngl this is also how it feels watching my arrogant instructor watching it run and making smart ass comments along the wayI’d hate for one of those coolant mishaps to go off in his honorable face.I wonder what the Siemens support is like in NK😅Pretty good, if it breaks they abduct a Siemens engineer and force them to work on it nonstop until it's fixed.And after it's fixed too.Yup I know that feeling lol.One time my post had an error and output a couple of garbage lines that made a -Y move directly into the middle of the part where it should've been a smooth arc. Thankfully it was a 1.5 inch rougher feeding at like 5 ipm so no tools got damaged but it ruined a $5000 prototype 😬.And that’s why I enjoy being part of the night crew 😎You scrap my part, I scrap your life!Next in line for the anti aircraft gunI wonder if there is any power to that machine and if it is operational.Yes circular interpolation would allow you to put the juice to. I will do a little look for you on that control.Is there a reason you cant drill to size?Also, I would highly recommend getting a bigger endmill. 20mm would be grand but 18 or 16 would be probably just as good.Edit: can you not just punch in a few lines of code? Or does it need to be a canned cycle?Thanks for your quick answer.Our tool salesman sold us the Ø25 drill as the perfect for the job. We need some good surface finnish to the hole because a shaft goes inside it (but not with a tight adjustment, the shaft goes inside and then is welded to the flange).We have to make holes from Ø30 to Ø60, and I'm not sure if our CNC can handle drills that big. Thats why we consider drilling first and then milling.A bigger endmill is a good idea. I have a Ø18 and a Ø20 but those are HSS. But I can get a carbide one if is needed.The solution can be a code also. I made the drill with a canned cycle but the helical milling with a code. Here is what i'm doing right now.;CENTRAL DRILL D25;INDEXABLE INSERT DRILL D25;POS X40 Y40T2 D1 M6M3 S3183 F100G0 X40 Y40G0 Z1CYCLE81(30, 0, 5, -1, 0)G0 Z1 F150CYCLE83(30, 0, 5, -18, 0, -6,  ,5, 0, 5, 1, 0, 3, 0, 16,  ,0)G0 Z50 M9;CENTRAL MILL D25 TO D35.1 helical interpolation;CARBIDE SOLID END MILL D10T3 D1 M6M3 S6048 F2056 M8G0 X40.5 Y52.95G0 X40 Y52.55 Z1G3 X40 Y52.55 Z-16 I0 J-12.55 TURN=115G3 X40 Y52.55 Z-16 I0 J-12.55G0 Z50The drill frist makes a small 0.5 mm pass and then goes pecking through the hole (I had to make it go in and out because the drill is too long and the coolant doesn't reach the bottom of the hole).Thanks in advance for your help!What are you using for CAM? use the biggest endmill you can get in your drilled hole with clearance, then use a 2D adaptive clearing toolpath to rough out the rest of the material, with a 2D contour as a finish pass to get final size/finish.Fellow fusion user?I was using FUSION 360 but as the pieces were too simple and I needed first to learn to use it, I started the production coding the mahcine myself.I'll take a look again with Fusion later today to see if I can get it right this time. I'm not sure how to get two or more different operations into one (drill + 2D adaptative clearing + 2D contour).Why not buy a 35mm drill?I have to take a finish pass to get the final tolerance on the hole. I guess I can use a bigger drill and then make just the finish pass, but right now we are trying to work with the tools we have.Fusion 360 works well and will do exactly what you need to have done to these parts, just bear in mind that your files will be uploaded into Autodesks' cloud no matter what, so make sure your boss is cool with that firstThanks! It seems really great once you got ised to it (and doesn't look complicated). I'll give a shot tonight and then test it tomorrow. And its ok for the cloud part, most of our designs are already on Traceparts (but thanks for the advice).Here is the code that I'm using right now.:;CENTRAL DRILL D25;INDEXABLE INSERT DRILL D25;POS X40 Y40T2 D1 M6M3 S3183 F100G0 X40 Y40G0 Z1CYCLE81(30, 0, 5, -1, 0)G0 Z1 F150CYCLE83(30, 0, 5, -18, 0, -6,  ,5, 0, 5, 1, 0, 3, 0, 16,  ,0)G0 Z50 M9;CENTRAL MILL D25 TO D35.1 helical interpolation;CARBIDE SOLID END MILL D10T3 D1 M6M3 S6048 F2056 M8G0 X40.5 Y52.95G0 X40 Y52.55 Z1G3 X40 Y52.55 Z-16 I0 J-12.55 TURN=115G3 X40 Y52.55 Z-16 I0 J-12.55G0 Z50https://robodk.com/blog/g-code-simulators-machining/3d printer maybe, wouldn't be all the same codeMaybe search for a free back plot program.When I would program by hand in the past I would run everything through back plot program.We use one you paid for.Grab some printed and program them.You could use https://ncviewer.com/Free 3D Backplotting to prove out codes and concepts.Other than that I would recommend finding some easy prints that you can attempt to throw some programs on, easy profiles, drilling holes, spinning counterbores with circular arcs or try using sub programs to simplify your life.We have sheets of them in a few drawers at our shop. Keep in mind tho there are codes that change depending on whether its Fanuc, Siemens or Okuma etc.Haas.com has an awsome hands on academy. Same with titans cnc. I haven't used the titans one but I've been told it's good for maximizing your cuts to save timeThat table feed drive is definitley a later add on. It's a pretty common one. You gonna clean up and oil those slideways and feed screws before you move anything?Looks similar to the newer Abene VHF models, except the head is on the opposite side PictureIt’s certainly very strange for a machine builder not to put their name anywhere on the castings.Have you looked literally everywhere on the machine and not found any trace of a name?Judging by the design it’s a bread and butter machine, quickly designed and easily manufactured, so it could have been built quite literally anywhere in the world.That being said, it looks quite simple. Write your own manual as you go along. 🤷‍♂️If you want lube recommendations I’m sure someone in this sub can help out.I have no idea but if you want oil recommendation: for your flat surfaces I would use line oil (translation from Dutch Leibaan olie) and for under the vice something acid free but a thick fat like bearing fat and the same for all the grease points with nipples.Watch for the kind of grease points, the flat ones are for thin oil and the outer ones are for thick fat.Very unusual machine, definitely looks like northern European build. I know certain Danish companies would engrave their name in the y-axis ways, so check all surfaces..So weird, lack of machine driven power feeds, odd locations and hand wheels, and just general weirdness of it good luck with finding info.Is $110k even good money in LA? Isn't the cost of living crazy high?Good opportunity for a young gun.well good luck. I've had recruiters call me alot. I always start the conversation with I'm open to relocation to anywhere but CA.Best advise I can give you is work with any and all recruiters that call. It's not cheap but they'll find people that werent looking who could be tempted by an offer.Your best bet is robbing people from shops in the area.I should also add, they had relocation and the benefits are great as well, I moved to work there and it was easy, plus LA has great food.Need a remote programmer just to take some load off?cars? start up? 10 Miles from my house? sign me up. in all seriousness unless you need someone with a couple years experience in general machining I'm your guy. if not...well. I'm not.I made some test on a lathe without live tooling, by making a multistart super high pitched tread left an right, the insert has to be twisted quite a bit thou.Im assuming its just an oil grove and the exact geometry isent important. Have fun turn the rpm really low.I did something similar by fucking up a G76 cycleI did this once on a hitachi with Siemens control. I can’t remember the code I used but it was a threading code that allowed me to change pitch and direction. I want to say I fed the x axis as it traveled from end to end. Your pitch has to slow down coming into the reverse or you wind up with a goofy looking point at the end. I had to grind my tool with crazy relief on both sides .. you know that part. I wish I could remember but I haven’t messed with CNCs since I got into maintenance. I want to say g72? I’m sure that’s probably not right. Also the slower I ran it the better the machine kept up with the change in direction. It looked more fluid on the ends. Never was perfect though. Fucking grease. They were tickled to death.Feeding in inches per revolution is your friend here. Your going to need to be turning super slow and feed at the pitch of the groove. Starting points and ending points are key, to get a groove that will cross at 180 degrees your starting point needs to be half the pitch off in Z. Think as if your programming it as it doing it in 1 or 2 revolutions. Also, depending on how the grooves cross, you may need a right and left handed tool with one of them facing up and one facing down while running the spindle backwards with one. I've done this with a full radius ID grooving tool, however, I was able to break out on the face. .Do you have live tools?If it's just a threading cycle can you run one left then one right? Back to front then from to back? I know that's easy on a CNC, I'm not a manual man. I may be misunderstanding the question though.https://i.imgur.com/4pnXCz8.jpgEasy peasy, there should be a pitch to them, correct? Also, does it have to be contained or can it break out on the face? No live tools neededCan I ask what we are looking at in the picture? Cause it doesn't seem to be a double loop. It seems to be two opposite handed spiral grooves and a relief between them. Are you trying to do something similar but with two double loop grooves?Edit: nvm, read rest of the comments, I no longer have this question.You could maybe do it without live tooling assuming you have a C axis. There is no way you could do what you're wanting to do with just X and Z. But even with a C axis that would be a CAM program, not something you're gonna write at the control, and I don't personally know that I'd be able to figure it out in CAM even.Well maybe this will work..Say you out the machine on super slow say 10 RPM, and the traveled distance is 200mm, couldn't you just infeed to depth, travel the 200mm (has to be done in 3 seconds because 10 per minute full rotation is 6 sec, divided by 2.. so F4000 if I calculate it right) might want to set the feed to mm/m instead of mm/rev (g95/g96?)... And at the end of the path, turn around and go back.Also, might want to couple rotation and feed if possible, to get repeatability.I'd use a 8mm or so round insert..To cut the double loop you could just work it like cutting a left hand thread. Use a screw cutting tool with what ever insert you need and use the opposite handed version to make the opposite groove. If you don’t have opposites then you can just use the same tool but turn it upside down.It may be a bit of bum clenching trial and error but I can’t think of how else to do itWhat if you used a 2 start threading code with a grooving insert?Just program a very coarse multistart thread. How I've always done it.Depends on brand/model of control. Please share this.You essentially have a variable pitch thread. You can cut each loop in halves if you don't have C-axis. I'm sure that the old school way was a cam driven cutting tool which repeated back and forth while it was fed in X.Different controls have different options to get this done. I am familiar with Okuma and FANUC so I'm hoping you have one of those.I do basic algebra all the time.Don't regularly use trig. No need.95% addition and subtraction. Some basic trig for single angles and stuff. Anything more complex gets drawn in mastercam because why risk a fuck up on account of bad math.Algebra, obvs. Then geometry and trig. I haven't actually done any calculus for machining stuff, but it's only a matter of time.Right now I'm working on a model of something that does Fourier analysis/synthesis mechanically, but I don't actually have to do any FFTs myself to make the model.99% very basic addition and subtraction. Everything else (angles and such) is in the drawings. I use Siemens software on my CNC machine, it calculates the rest.Trig for me. Other than basic addition and subtraction.Basic addition and subtraction, some algebra if I need to calculate any spindle speeds or feed rates.I used to do all of my trig on a piece of paper...now I just go draw it out in my CAM software lol.Subtraction. :D "This part is how big? And it needs to be how big? Okay, so I need to take off X minus Y. Cool."SFPMx3.8/diameterNo floor mats and standing on diamond plate all day? Sir, I'm calling OSHA.Wtf, how long have you been able to get machines?Might have to dust it off and play againDon’t get to excited. You can’t interact with them at all.Part of a location you can buy and run weapons out of for money. The machines are as interactable as the indestructible trees areAre there actually mill displays that look like that? Holy hellThe Mazak smooth controls are basically giant ipads.Celos MAPPS V on our NLX is just two touchscreens and some potis, so it's getting there.The New Mazatrol is also basically one big touchscreen.Looks like a union shop.No safety equipment or dividers anywhereThe new 50T Fryer we have in our shop w/ Siemens control leaves a lot to be desired. It’s painfully obvious that our manager went for the cheapest machine he could find. Good luck with any customer support on that thing. Hope you have good luck with yours.Thanks yeah this is our second one, i crank it as fast as i can. Their user manuals suck, siemens help screen is where its at.Small world, we used Mariano Bros for a bunch of our machinery rigging/moving.Oh man, we have an old MC-40 that I run from time to time, they are great machines.Spindle counterbalance fucked off on you?Good luck, our 200fd and ctx have a bunch that are not the same. Best bet is find the disk of pdfs that came with the machine, or call dmg and ask for the manuals for that serial #. The Siemens Manuals are pretty easy to find with a Google search (if it is Siemens).Ours has a Heidenhain, but where can I find the model #?Can you start with the whole block and do the finish passes as you rough down the block? Rough the top 1/4" and finish the top 1/4". Then rough the next 1/4" and finish it too, and so on. So you are never machining stickout more than 1/4" (or whatever interval you want to use).Sadly that's essentially how I have it running now lolGoogle Siemens Thin Wall, they have an article on it.Can you do it laying down so you don't need a super long end mill and then use the end of the mill or an insert end mill to nibble at it gently?Then mill a support piece out of something else with a channel. Lay it in that and then remove the other side so the delicate part is supported on 3 sides with the channel?Yep, came here to suggest thisRamp down and grind shoulder clearance on your endmill.Spiral machine from top to bottom, no roughing at all. Machine .1 down, stop and measure. Make adjustments for negative stock allowance per print then take all the way to the house. Used to do it all the time on deep rib burns...Yup. Don't rough and finish. Just do a waterline spiral path or a flowline spiral path to final depth.Got a 4th axis? Could sidemill all the way down a bit like thishttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qdUX0eLGr2IEdge precision is great. Many hours of entertainment I've had thanks to him (and knowledge)I would try to lay it down and support it from the bottom but having done many long thin trodes they’re always a painGraphite electrode, unfortunately I can't "beef it up"Can you do it on 2 ops on the side. Suppor in vise mill three sides, flip it and mill the final side? You need another point of contact.Idk what material that is, but your setup does not look rigid enough. I’d would look at doing a flat setup and do half then flip itFinish it in sections starting from furthest from the base.I regret I can't offer anything of value to help because I would have said step down finishing like others have already mentioned, however curiosity has a hold on me..If you are able to answer; is this regular old clay graphite? Looks like the good dense stuff, not shitty extruded coarse stuff I've seen.Secondly, what's a finished part like this cost a customer? I always hear about how expensive EDM machining is and wondered is it because of the electrodes and the graphite, or the slower process itself?This is the graphite - https://poco.entegris.com/en/home/products/premium-graphite/edm-grades/edm-3.htmlEDM-3 isn't cheap stuff, but it holds up longer. This particular electrode would be cheap, but the part its burning on also has like 65 other electrodes that burn on it. so it will be pretty expensive overall. That same block spent 2 weeks in the wire and has been in the sinker now for a little over a week.Have you got material to put a jigging boss at the top end and hold it using a centre support?Run away .Switch to screwed and bonded graphite on a base plate instead of screw pinched, that'll help.Rough to barely clean up (looks like .400/ side over? Hard to tell) the blank, then finish in a spiral ramp the whole way down in one go. You may need to get a different cutter in which case go as big as possible, and you will need to minimize the flute length by necking it back.Good luck, those ribs are trickyhttps://youtu.be/4iQkMwQ9uT8Neat looking part.Isn't the Harvi 1 more focused towards steels though? They have been pushing the Kor-5 for aluminum on my application.Kinda overkill endmill for it, is it not? Like, anything machines aluminium pretty well.What's the control? I don't recognize it....I own a 90's 420SLL that is very similar, just no Y axis. What info are you looking for?Basically just the complexity of programming one, the dual spindles I've ran before ran 2 separate programs does this do the same? And how does the CAM software handle that?What's it like setting one up? Especially if you're doing 2 different OPs on both spindles with the same turret?Also any tips on using the controller, like are there any neat tricks that you can do with it, like how Kitamuras can find the center of a part by edge finding 3 points.Make me oneWhat kind of printer is that?Some printer I designed and built.got the .stl?https://cults3d.com/en/3d-model/tool/print-in-place-allen-key-holder-inspired-by-wihaHow do you get that internal part loose if it's printed in place on a filament printer? Just have to force it back and forth until the support material gives up?This design doesn’t use supports, the rack and gears are not touching each other and they taper to allow for printing without supports.That is so cool. I'd definitely be like "deploying 'tools' now" inside my head before pushing that button. Awesome design.That's really cool! I'm gonna print up a couple for my Allen keys at home.BTW I'm the guy that posted the Allen key holder originallyThanks for the stl!Hell yeah man! I really had no idea something like that existed until your post. This design is not as good as the wiha brand case in that it is pretty inefficient in terms of space but its more ergonomic then the case my keys came with. Hopefully I'll actually put my hex wrenches away now haha. Thanks for sharing!learned this on Friday, "allen" keys aren't Allen keys, "vise grips" aren't vise grips and "crescent" wrenches aren't crescent wrenches. those are the name of the company that make that style of tool!as a lover of the wiha holder, this is pretty fuckin nice bud!My thought process: "Eh, that's just a fatter-WHOA THEY TURNED THAT'S SO FRICKING COOL!"Nice going to have to get into this myself ! Thanks for posting !Shut up and take my moneyI love multitasking lathes. I'm more partial to the multus right now but to each his own. Enjoy your new toy and don't let people crash it.EDIT: spellingCheck out the performance numbers on the CTX, they are studs. Also the tiny spindle housing is pretty sweet. And the Siemens 840D controller.I don't think the CTX beta TC is available as a multichannel machine though.I bought a used lenovo think pad p50 a couple years ago for around 700 and it runs mastercam and fusion 360 like a champ. Just need to find one with the right graphics card and a good amount of ram. I think it's a nvidia quadro m2000 graphics cards with 8 gbs ram.T420, fully kitted out, under 300$Check out something similar to a dell precision 4800. That was plenty enough for me before I upgraded to the thinkpad. Biggest drawback for you will be battery life on the dell.Keep in mind that most consumer-based computer sales are focused on gaming or video editing hardware. Cad/CAM has very different graphics requirements for optimal performance. Your software should have recommendations for minimum hardware requirements.Also keep in mind that most of those graphical requirements are total bullshit. I run Mastercam on like an 8-year-old Nvidia 970m.Cad/cam on a laptop is awkward imo.Maybe so but you can always get a mouse and external monitor. Laptops are nice if you’re trying to stay mobile if your cncs aren’t on the network.If you're just starting out, and really just looking at getting your feet wet, there's no reason to overspend on a learning system.A basic T480(s) (~200$-300$) or similar will be just fine for simple drawing/modeling and 2-3 axis OPs. It's what I use as a backup machine for Inventor/Fusion. Just make sure it has 1080p and/or look into external monitors.Once you get into bigger assemblies, more intricate parts, or have to constantly (re)generate a lot of dynamic pathing/models, that's when the nicer systems start to shine.Even then, a cheap(ish) gaming laptop or a used workstation laptop (P50/P52) will get you by. I personally use a gaming laptop (5800H /w a 3060) at home and it handles Mastercam and Inventor without any problems.For reference, check out Mike's excellent video on this topic.No no no iii do not notStop being a cheap beeyyoochhHow long is a piece of string?Edit: in all reality look at other manufacturers in your area, or within 50 miles. See what starting wages are at those other businesses, gather up evidence for an argument that you're worth more. If they don't see it and you're competent as you say you are, then look for employment elsewhere. I've learned these lean manufacturing principles really screw skilled employees over in the long run and a lot of times the only way to climb up the pay scale is to jump around jobs. I know there are quite a few good paying jobs in the states for someone of your skill set.What are your skills? Offline programming? Multi-axis work? Lathes and mills? Various materials? Have you got a track record of success in implementing lean or is it just at this company?What you get is dependant largely on where you are in the country and then how much experience you've got. In reality, lots of machine shops aren't going to care a great deal about you liasing with customers and tool reps, nor about implementing lean etc. £11 an hour for your level of experience doesn't sound too bad at all, especially not in my neck of the woods. However, I would look on Indeed.co.uk and see what others are being paid in your area and what they're wanting for that money.Id personally wait until you have finished the qualification they have put you on. In the mean time keep track of the stuff your doing and bring it up in the meeting may.Where are you ? Id say you should be getting between £13-£15 from the sounds of it. We pay our operators £10 and id barely trust some of them to press go !Report back on what your doctor says. I’m genuinely curious now.Seconded. Also if chips in coffee will prevent me from an MRI in the future.All went well. For suprise, person who did MRI was acquaintance. Told at reception that I work with metal and just removed chips from my beard,before coming here and I have black nose inner lining with possible metal dust in lungs.MRI guy jokingly Told that " don't worry,they will get pulled out and you will be clean " 😀MRI was for upper and lower back. Total about 30 minutes. Didn't feel any disconfort or anything wierd. Sound are similar to Cnc machine when doing high feed cuting ( 12000+ feed rate)It was done in clicin built in last few years. Machine was Siemens or Samsung.Private sector. FYI cost was 2x 180 EUR,coverd by insurance. I live in Europe, Baltic startes.You should tell them that you work with metal and chips; They will either do an Xray or a CT before an MRI to make sure you're good. But realistically if you are getting black nose lining from work you really should be wearing a mask at the least and most likely an active respirator. PPE should be taken seriously- People have a bad habit (not saying you) of attributing lack of safety with manly. Our jobs steal enough of our time- protect yourself to make sure you can enjoy as much of the rest.Had an MRI recently and the questionnaire asks if you're a metal worker.Talk to your doctor/MRI Clinic, not Reddit.Talk to your doctor. I have to get one done eventually and my doctor ran down a list of things which included foreign objects in my eyes, and since I've had metal in my eye in the past she requisitioned an xray prior to the mri to ensure there's no metal lodged anywhere. She never mentioned anything about dust in the lungs or whatever. My thoughts are it'd be too small to matter, or that your lungs should be pushing that shit out anyway unless they're compromised for some reason. But I'm not a doctor. Again talk to your doctor, tell them your profession and what it entails and that you're worried about metals being stuck in your body. Can confirm, same scenario for me, did an X-RAY and was good to go for the MRI after.I’ve had a few MRI’s in the past after about 10 years of grinding with no respiratory protection. Never had an issue. I also never thought about that being a thing. Going on year 22 in the shop, I definitely protect my lungs now. Boss man thinks I’m going overboard, but I wanna see my daughter grow up.Anyhow, talk to the doctor. They know more about your body than we do.Tell your doctor. They will generally do an X-Ray firstThey asked me when I did mine a few months ago if I'd been doing metalwork or had tattoos within the last six weeks so they oughta be asking you something similarYour doctor will send you for x-rays! Go get x-rays. Get X-rays on your HEAD as well. If there's a tiny metal chip behind your eyeball it will rip straight through your eyes during your MRI. PLEASE GET XRAYS.Tell them that you work with grinders etc! The magnets in an MRI are apparently strong enough to pull any metal fragments in your eyes through your eyelids, according to the specialist who looked at my dad.I think you'll be ok. I expressed this fear about tiny splinters/fragments in me or my jeans but my doc told me it would be ok and it was. I would think dust isn't going to affect it either. But feel free to  ask. I have had at least 2 done in the last few years. Daily work with steels and stuff, they specifically ask you if you work with metals I always say yes and they shrug it off.What about the iron in your blood? Will they drain you and then refill you like an oil change ?It's more about making sure you don't have chips in your eyes. Have had several MRIs.Tell them and they will give you an x-ray of your head and lungs before you get an MRI they also have lower magnetic mri’s.I've had several MRIs. Never an issue. They always do an xray of my eyes tho to make sure there is no metal in them.Had an MRI for spinal issues this past Fall. Told my doctor about the industry(machine repair/metal fab) I work in and that I have had metal removed from my eye in the past, was sent for an orbital x-ray only. The doctor reviewed, I have had two MRIs since with no issues.I run a lot of Haas and continually want to get back off it and onto something else again. They work fine, the 3 axis machines are great and cheap. I've cut plenty of stainless and CRS in them. The 5 axis machines have been fine too. I find the Haas 50 taper to be as strong at everyone else's 40 taper. A nearly fully optioned Haas is about the same as the base model of others.I miss the Mazaks, finally have an Okuma now I like. I think the Haas control is still one of the easier ones to use, and their maintenance will actually show up when you call with the parts - I believe that is the appeal.For 30-50% more money it's possible to get double the machine but double the service time if/when things break. I'll be without a toolsetter and breakage detection for a month or two for my Okuma once it's wrapped up. However I'm able to rough 4x faster than our Haas.Do you find the service is just shit for okuma, at least in your case? Surely not all higher-end machine makers all have that long a lead time for repairs. If it's not too technical, is it just possible to get a local machine repair service unless it's on warranty?If the plan is to take heavy cuts in steel then you want something with box ways, not linear rails. Probably want a CAT50 spindle or HSK equivalent as well. Thru spindle coolant is a must for deep holes and pockets. A probing sytem is really nice but not necessarily a must.I have an okuma from 1994 that still holds tenths. Mori is the industry leader but is expensive, Doosan and Okuma would be my next level of quality maybe mazak as well.I've always used Fanuc controls but people say they aren't intuitive.To get a machine up and running quickly I would look into something that has conversational programming. Mazak and Mori seem popular for this.Since this is your first CNC machine I would also make sure you buy a machine that has local support, maintenance, applications engineering etc. This will be invaluable when things go wrong.I was definitely aiming for 50 taper, like the Correa mill we have now which also has almost 30 hp spindle motor. I have no experience with HSK I've only just seen them. Thru spindle coolant is another thing that would be a must, we do a lot of deep holes and pockets features.My buddy always talked about getting an okuma slant-bed lathe, said they were the awesome. Totally slipped my mind to think about them for a mill.I would imagine we probably won't be hiring a programmer, it'll all be done on the spot, probably by me. A powerful CAM would be useful, or at least something that is easy enough to work with. I mostly just use this 1986 Fanuc 3 vertical mill. Just uploading programs or basic mdi stuff.Local support may be an issue regardless of the option, we are pretty out of the way, but there are local rep locations around the country of various makers.Every big machine has its pros and cons. One major tradeoff I've seen in large HBMs is rigidity:repeatability. I've ran machines you can hog as hard as you want and they'll keep going, even if your inserts are completely gone. But I wouldn't trust them to hit really tight positional tolerances. Other machines are the complete opposite. They'll hit 0.0005" positional all day long, but can't handle big heavy roughing cuts, at least not for any great length of time.As for controllers, I've ran Tosnuc, Fanuc, Siemens and Sinumerik. Fanuc is good in that it is a very common controller, so if you ever get CAM software, it doesn't take much support to get the post up and running. Also, because they are common, when you hire someone with CNC experience in the future, lots of times they will have Fanuc experience. Tosnuc and Sinumerik are very similar to Fanuc programming wise. Tosnuc has a nice offset feature that gives you over 100 possible coordinate settings, which is nice for some part programs, even if all you are changing is a Z depth.Currently running a Siemens controller. It is not very intuitive, but it is incredibly powerful. I'm completely self-taught on it, and I can make it do some pretty cool things, but I know I'm still barely scratching the surface. Siemens also uses some weird proprietary code as well, so getting posts made up for a CAM is major pain in the butt, as Siemens controllers aren't as common.From what I've seen and read, Haas is a lot better than "good enough"I wont bible bang on Haas as the best at or for anything. However, for the money. You can’t beat it. It’s cheap, people everywhere online are willing to help program for it and they can actually turn really accurate parts in a very fast time IF you have a good CAD/CAM department. As far as maintenance they don’t want for much but do need you to do weekly and monthly PM’s or they’ll shut down. Otherwise most shit goes bad In warranty.That being said. If money is less a problem then for most. All day every day till the end of time: the new OKUMA machines are amazing and I highly recommend them. Far smarter than anything on the market and probably less expensive than like DMG.*edited for grammarMight be worth your time to look at a kuraki or okuma. Our kurakis are reaching 40 years old and still running well. Our older okuma is reaching 30 and still works great, although I’ve never liked the guards.Good machinists only read the code while driving the machine at 200%You still have sound and smell leftjust place your hand upon the glass and feel the vibrationsWhat kinda programming is this? So many call lblsMost of them are for positioning. That's on the grob g350Bricks were shit this moment.HideinhindsightWhen the machine has had enough of the operators bullshit#KawabungaDistance to whoooo.."Busted" can mean more than one thing. An encoder can be broken but still output enough of a signal that the controller/drive will recognize it's there. That could be what's going on with your system. Alternatively, whatever mechanical coupling connects the encoder to the spindle could be broken, so it won't spin with the spindle but works fine otherwise.Depending on the type of motor and control system, the spindle will still spin at about the right speed without any encoder feedback as you've described, though I'd expect it would give you a warning or something - but that just depends on how the software is done.I don't know about mini lathes but on the slide there should be a gib strip that can be tightened up or a locking screw that can be nipped up a bit to tighten up the slide.Check the gib strips, they hold the slide in alignment as you move it.When you are not needing to use the compound slide, lock it down. Alternatively, remove it as was done https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pG3YSfgyJPI (Robin Renzetti is a fantastic resource in general, as is Stefan Gotteswinter).Can’t speak to the Clarke, but on most lathes there is a bolt on top of the carriage that clamps it to the bed. This is essential when facing, grooving/cutting off, and bevelingA little more research shows that these little lathes have no carriage lock.Here’s a page showing how one guy made oneI think you'd be well served by the move, I know quite a few people who have made the move and become quite successful. Job markets vary a lot by state but the midwest is very industrial and aerospace/automotive heavy. Most but not all employers will pay insurance, also, cost of living is low in the midwest.Thanks very much where are the major manufacturing hubs so I can narrow down a job search a tad better.Ah, the Mercedes of machining centers. Expensive to repair, difficult to troubleshoot and only really understood fully by a few German fellows in fashionable overalls.I do love Germany.Lmao I see where you're coming from. If people don't use them daily that is often the case. I've been using Deckel Mahos, Mori Seikis and DMG MORIs for over 4 years now and I often can troubleshoot and fix common problems with most of their machines.I use a lot of them : Lasertec 65 DED Hybrid (DMU 65 Miniblock), DMU Gantry 340, DMU 40 Evo, DMG US 10, DMC Duoblock 125, NTX 2500, Ecomill 635, NV5000, NMV 8000 DCG, NT 5400 DCG, NT 4250 DCG, NVX 2080, NLX 2500.After use of all of these it's not hard to sort out many things. Especially like the Lasertec which a lot can go wrong.PS. I want a pair of those overallsI work for hardinge. The Buick of machining centers. I still have no idea how they're still in business lol.That’s where my dmgs were born 🥲 Jealous AF right nowI’m jealous to say the least a few of our guys went there for factory training and tell me how awesome it was but company said they are done sending people :(Yeah, sadly when someone is trained they tend to pass down the knowledge to newer people.Companies avoid it sadly since it can cost a lot of money depending on the machine but it introduces things that can go wrong. Hell just a few weeks ago on our DMU 40 Evo the coolant tank wasn't filled enough so it brought loads of air into the coolant supply which then throthed all up and flooded the area around the machine.Due to that I end up going to the person who trained them and scolding them for not teaching that (I hate scolding people :(. There's even a notice saying to make sure it's filled well.Best business trip ever.I went a few years ago, that factory is in an AMAZING location.Jealous, you get named variables for your macros.Siemens 840D my friend, the possibilities are endless!You can have named macros for just about any g-code dialect with the right tools.I built the capability to save the names in comments and use them when programming into G-Wizard Editor a long time ago, just because I couldn't stand not having named macros.https://www.cnccookbook.com/g-wizard-editors-new-macro-variable-tab-setvn-naming-variables/What kind of machine are you running?MAG specht 600 machining center making cylinder blocks for petrol / diesel engines.Weve got a DMU60, CTX 800 and CMX all with Siemens and I would probably quit if I had to run another machine! What mill is that and are you having to manually write each probe macro like that? Weve always used the Probing cycles in ShopMILL and ProgramGuide.Agreed, Siemens controllers are the best I've come across. I work for a major UK car company programming MAG specht 600s on a transfer line making 9000 parts per week, so the internal Siemens stuff stops being useful. Can't use post processing either so all my programming is done by hand and tested online. Keeps me busy!Haas is NOT a top of the line brand, but rather one of the best 'value for money' brands that's out there.The Haas VF-2 is the single most common CNC machine in the US. It's the F150 of the machine tool world.People constantly shit on Fords, but that doesn't stop them from buying one and using it for years and years. It's a solid product that gets the job done.This is exactly the right view. Is it the more ridged, most accurate, or most long lasting machine? Absolutely not. But compare the cost of them to any of the above and they definitely have their place in many if not most shops.The Haas VF-2 is the single most common CNC machine in the USI have Haas (even a VF-2 that I am very pleased with) and Mori Seiki on my floor. While Haas is not a Mori it does just fine for the work I have. Highly unlikely I'll buy another Mori in the foreseeable future. Especially since I recently got a quote for a Mori NLX2500-SY lathe around $300k. Yikes!The huge plus for Haas is that they are very popular in trade schools and most people (in general) have run/encountered them. Thus minimal/no training. Considering the lack of machinists out there, this is a huge plus.I call them the Dodge Caravan. They won't out perform anyone, and you won't look cool doing it. But they'll get the team to soccer practice.And credit where credit is due. They are some of the most accessible machines out there, not just because of pricing. Look at the Haas DIY channels. They break down everything from how to replace your spindle to best use of their macros.They're fine machines, not the best accuracy or the most rigid, but for the work that 95% of shops do they're more than adequate.My issue with them is that they put all the dangerous buttons all next to each other. Option stop near turret index, I don’t know how many times I accidentally hit the coolant button instead of single block, handle feed is right next to turret index.A poor craftsman always blames his tools. Haas machines are great workhorses. Are they the absolute best money can buy? No. Will they get the job done? Absolutely. Haas control is also my favorite.I don't think there is a reason to buy a Haas in 2023. The value is no longer there. Their marketing department is top-notch, but their engineering and manufacturing can't keep up with demand.A few minor issues:Their quality seems to be slowly slipping every year.Their NGC control is slow at processing, buggy, freezes at random, and has trouble with simultaneous 5AXThe Haas control is no longer user-friendly compared to other modern controls #siemens840DgangChip management is awful(around me)Their support is slowly getting further and further out. They are no longer doing annual maintenance.services techs aren't the most experiencedtheir tool changers drop tools occasionallyspindles are loudLow horsepower/rigiditymachine protection is lacking compared to competitors(sometimes it trips with minimal vibration, sometimes it doesn't trip when it really should)hard to market/rep for not being serious (it's a lot easier to get new business when you can tell someone in the know that you have a DMG Mori vs a Haas)A few plusses:support is often quick to get with a google searchbare-bones machines are priced very competitivelyeasy to find machinists with familiaritypostprocessor availability is phenomenalThey have never been a super high-end, rigid machine, but not every job needs/makes sense to run on a Yasda.If you are going to get a bare-bones VF series, I don't think you are making a terrible decision. However, I think there are more user-friendly control options and better value in other machine tool builders in 2023(especially when you start to add minor options).Most importantly, resist the temptation to get a second Haas when you are looking for machine #2.I just bought a Doosan DNM 5700 (about the same size as a VF3) for less than I paid for my VF2SSYT. Once you option out a haas it's likely more expensive than a comparable doosan that has those features standard..Those that shit on Haas are the ones that have been blessed that their company bought them million dollar machines and never even laid hands on a Haas. They do great work for the price and you can get some great parts out of it when you use them within their limits.Haas mills are fine, not fantasitic but fine. Lathes… I really wish I hadn’t bought mine. Very poorly designed in many waysYup, same opinion here. I used to run 2017 ST30Y with BOT/VDI turret. Live tooling is very weak and aligning it is a chore.Also, drilling with insert drills is a pain in the ass. If you manage to hit the speeds and feeds just right it's OK, but most of the time, the machine just wants to shake itself apart.It's the 80/20 rule for cnc machine makers. 80% of the capabilities For 20% of the monies. The Toyota of cncs if you will.It's like someone who drives a Lamborghini saying that Honda makes bad cars. Is the Honda worse than the Lamborghini? Probably. Is the Honda good for the price? Absolutely. Most people who shit on Haas either had experiences with them far in the past (the machines and company used to be worse), or are comparing them to their half-million-dollar Nakamura machines. I've run Okumas and Nakamuras mostly myself as well, and while I do prefer them over a Haas, I don't prefer the price tag haha.I've had a number of co-workers over the years tell me that Hass machines are shit. Interestingly enough, after working with them, they all turned out to be better machinists in their minds than in real life.I see a lot of people talking about the machines themselves.I'm going to talk about haas the COMPANYThey are dogshit. They over-sell the capabilities of their cheap machines. They are extremely anti-consumer and extremely stingy with blueprints/drawings/machine information. They refuse to allow any service provider other than their "HFO"s buy parts or get information. All just very greedy and self-centered.There are other cheap machines out there I'd buy before I'd buy a Haas, buisness practices alone.Don't even get me started on their controls. Re-inventing the wheel unnecessarily. Also the only modern CNC control that doesn't run in base metric, which is dumb from a design/service standpoint.You pay for what you get. There’s a reason you can get a 5 axis Haas for 100k and DMG of the similar size is 300kThey really are a bottom-barrel machine. Small timers like them because they're cheap, but that's all they have going for them.A lot of people will make excuses for lack of rigidity or repeatability because of the cost, and that's fine, but when my lathe settles .015" from sitting over night, there's a line to be drawn somewhere.The 5-axis UMC mills have a ghost in the machine that causes the spindle to sometimes plunge through the tool setter. There has been no fix so far.Service is terrible these days. They found out that their way grease was defective and wouldn't feed through the lines, but they never sent out any bulletins or told their service crews to check if machines were still using the bad stuff.They sold so many machines and never grew the service department, so service is usually 3 weeks or more out, then you have to wait for parts, and then schedule another visit in 3 weeks. Had a UMC500 down for 2 months for a wire harness.They sold us one of their own machines they used to mill castings for their machines, and it arrived covered in cast iron dust, had severe spindle oil leak, and the spindle shrieks at anything more than 1200rpm. If that's how they take care of their own equipment, and are blind to problems on their own machinery, and willing to pass those problems on to the customer, then I don't know what else to tell you.And most controversial, the control panel is shit. Newbies like them because it's usually the first panel they touch, but nobody wants buttons to adjust speeds and feeds.Doosan is way better than Haas. They're not much more expensive and have a nice Fanuc controller. You can also beat the shit out of them and they'll still make good parts12 years running Haas machines exclusively here. They're ok. Not great, not bad. One of the best things is ease of use and a very easy to learn control panel. Even people with no cnc background can get used to them fairly fast. Their build isn't always great. We've had Z axis ballscrew snap on lathe on 4 year old machine that runs maybe 6hrs a day. Had Z axis ballscrew snap on minimill x2 in 2 years. Also runs 6-8hrs/day. Sl10 belt kept snapping every 6 months for about 2.5 years. Runs 24/5. As for service, sometimes it feels like they're not sure what they are doing exactly. We've had a lot of issues with them. If they have to come back to fix their mistake, they'll send you a new quote to sign first. Lead times range 1-2 weeks on every call out. Other machines run great thou. Vm3,Vf2 going strong on 14 years now. Uk here.Bought a DMU200P and DMC200U in 2004. I programmed a job that had been taking 13 hours across 11 other CNC machines. 250kg cast steel with chill spots. We got it down to 2 ops and 1 hour 45 minutes total with 3 operators on each machine per shift working continental shift patterns, 4 on 4 off night and day. OMG, that machine was so flexible and fast. I would have rather had the A Winkle Kopf rather than the B head; and would certainly have gone geared not electro spindle had I known my jobs were going to be steel and not aluminium as was originally specified. ha ha. But still a huge amount of fun. I've been to Pfronten 3 times, and even took my family one time - what a sad MF I am. But what an awesome area. DMG rocks - and then rocks again.This one is with geared spindle. Soo good :)Arent these the machines other CNC machines are made on?Deckel- there is no substituteDaewoo is garbage nice upgrade.but cheap and usable.Toyoda on the other hand...how many buttons to press and modes to go through to open the side door.Is that a rotating window from a ship? I'm assuming it gets pretty messy in there huh?What model? The DMG machines are fantastic. Now that Mori is on board, I am expecting some ridiculous innovations.Which controller did it come with?Interesting, always loved their industrial design, have heard tales of poor reliability, will be interested to hear some follow ups.Huh? What? I've never heard that! DMG is the best of the best :)I would love to hear. Mori/DMG is pretty legit equipment. I have almost solely heard good things. The biggest issue is users arguing between the different awesome control options (Seimens, Mits, or Heidenhain).If you know any one CAD package, it’s pretty easy to pick up another. Best way to learn imo is to just try making parts, and when you get stuck go to YouTube.This. I was very proficient with Mastercam and I self thought myself to use Fusion 360 in less than 2 days.I agree with the previous reply. And I also agree to the fact that Catia is incredibly user unfriendly and counter intuitive, but a potent CAD system...I also agree with the last two responses. I moved from Gibbs to Solid Cam years ago by just playing with it. If you can navigate Master Cam, you will be able to figure out just about everything else. Hypermill will be a bit tricky but, that's mostly because their UI is old feeling.I also agree with the last three responses. It just seemed like the thing to do.CATIA has an absolutely atrocious learning curve, but is incredibly potent. You’ll do best with some form of in-person training.3dx is slightly easier for me than V5, but pays for it as the base of the program becomes more difficult to use.I use Esprit for INDEX machines running Siemens but my posts can’t touch the programs output by NX.NX offers like a month trial via remote access I think?This is more along the lines of an answer I was looking for.You program on all those softwares? I have tried NX when I was working as a tech at a university but never got a post processor for any of our machines.What is so hard about starting with CATIA? Is it just the way they force your workflow?If you find one for around that price - snag it up..paid $125,000 for new vf2 in USA 2 1/2 yrs ago only 3 axis...4th&5th axis will add $$$$$ Good luck ....Optimum mills are probably a little small, but definitely within your price rangeThank you for the info, i will check their websiteyou know Haas in made in USA right?!?!I (think) he's OK with that, as long as it's a place known for quality workmanship (e.g., Canada, US, UK, EU, Britain, Japan...)Hehe, i am aware of that, why are you acting so surprised? :DCheck out POS. I worked on an E1100 for 2 years and I have to say it was a pretty good machine. I don't know the exact price but I was told it was quite cheap for what it was capable of. Also, they are extendable with a 4th/5th axis.It seems that your comment contains 1 or more links that are hard to tap for mobile users. I will extend those so they're easier for our sausage fingers to click!Here is link number 1 - Previous text "POS"Please PM u/eganwall with issues or feedback! | Deletei don't think that there is a trivial off the shelf solution for custom robots. there's a few things that may help though:siemens has technology packages for different kinematics. technically, their (larger) PLCs are capable of driving up to 127 (i believe) axes synchronously.beckhoff's twincat also has modules for inverse kinematics, but from what i've seen they're only for relatively simple kinematics.i don't think that there's a silver bullet for custom robot arms. both of the options above aren't cheap either...Your succinct reply slid in before my long rambling one, but it sounds like we have the exact same conclusion! I will add that beckhoff definitely has a standard robot arm model, but I don't know if they have support for mounting the base to a track as a seventh axis.Thanks. I'll look into Siemens and Beckhoff.How about Schneider or Rockwell? They both have "motion controller" PLCs, but how robotics-ready are they? They both have a lot of text mentioning robotics on their websites.Btw, when you say "inverse kinematics" does that term typically include dynamics and control algorithms as well? Just wanted to understand the industry terminology.One option is a Siemens 840d controller. This is the highest end Siemens cnc / plc offering and it is very common for big custom machines, often considered the most powerful general purpose motion controller on the market. However the learning curve is way steeper than ros in my opinion! They are also insanely expensive.When used to control 6dof robot arms, often on tracks or with complex end effect tooling, the 840d replaces the on board motion controller from the robot vendor. This is most commonly implemented with kukas (also German). An example would the carbon fiber layup machines that make the 787, where the robot axes, ground track, and dozens of tape dispense lanes are all interpolated together!A relative newcomer to 6dof arm control is beckhoff and their twincat motion control. With the right kinematics package they can do similar 'basic' 6dof+ setups. It is not nearly as powerful as the 840d, but beckhoff has a free development environment and can run on any Intel box with windows. As long as the drives talk over ethercat (which ros also supports) they can be controlled. The learning curve is still steep, especially if you start with no plc experience, but I think it is easier to self teach because the environment is more open. This is probably the best choice for you.In both cases, arms often need to be modified to add output encoders to all of the joints. Robot arms are repeatable, not accurate, so additional encoders are needed for good cnc control.One final thing to keep in mind is that the standard industrial approach for this type of robot control is to generate gcode offline, while the controller is just responsible for traversing the path as accurately as possible. The controller can make slight 3d corrections to joints to offset the path, but broader kinematic decisions (elbow orientation, etc) are made by the cam software offline.Let me know if you have any more questions. I spent ten years in custom aerospace tooling working on these controllers, and sometimes robot arms.Thanks for the detailed reply! I'll definitely look into Siemens and Beckhoff.How about Schneider or Rockwell? They both have "motion controller" PLCs, but how robotics-ready are they? They both have a lot of text mentioning robotics on their websites.Btw, when you say "inverse kinematics" does that term typically include dynamics and control algorithms as well? Just wanted to understand the industry terminology.One final thing to keep in mind is that the standard industrial approach for this type of robot control is to generate gcode offline, while the controller is just responsible for traversing the path as accurately as possible. The controller can make slight 3d corrections to joints to offset the path, but broader kinematic decisions (elbow orientation, etc) are made by the cam software offline.Could you elaborate more about generating gcode offline? Do you mean the motion path program is "taught" and then converted to gcode and fed to the controller to execute the servo motions? What is "cam software"?My application will need a master-slave operation, with either fully manual open-loop control of the robot arm using the master input system and just a PTZ camera visual feedback, or a more automated control where the environment has a digital twin 3D model and the motion path is simulated and recorded and then executed on the actual robot arm.side-question: is siemens 840d what is being replaced by siemens ONE right now? we've recently gotten a retrofit on a five axis CNC. the new controller is siemens ONE afaik.Working on something similar, thought I'd chip in. Word on the street in Europe is that kuka is stopping support for CNC.Sinumerik, so I suppose that might be a problem for RunMyRobot? Apparently Comau is a good alternative. It's a shame MABI aren't making anything bigger, I've been told they have a much better encoder setupThere’s Synthiam ARC for a plug’n’play approachThanks for that. Sounds interesting.Umm that's a tank. Pretty sure the design has been around a while.That article has a whole bunch of bullshit in it. Prime example:"An omnidirectional camera platform on the top transmits videos and information in real time, coupled with an intelligent vision algorithm that allows the operator to remotely locate affected areas and prevent the spread of infectious diseases at low cost."Essentially they are claiming that their shitty looking robot can "see" coronavirus?That same dossier was on the generals desk the next morning.Spotted the devil in details.It looks like all they did was take an existing design, and mount some disinfectant foggers on top. If it took then longer than a week, I would be disappointed.So basically they took their top secret automated personnel murder robot and swap the mini gun for a spray. They didn’t even try to make this thing not threatening.This can be done in less than a week. None of it's new or novel. Infact, it's common enough that quite a lot of the parts can be bought prebuilt or reused.I have used galil products extensively. I generally prefer AMC, but also have used many industrial products from Rexroth, Siemens, Rockwell, eetc.Depends entirely on application, price point, source power, etc. If you're really into the motion control algorithms themselves you can write your own position controller in C (or use generated code for a given target with Matlab simulink) and leverage an off-the-shelf amplifier.Edit:Just reread your post - This is for stepper motors? Gosh, there's not a lot of control theory in a stepper motor, sounds like you're mostly looking for a library in whatever language you work with to generate the motion profiles.Delta Tau Power PMAC. Programming language is easy, pretty basic object oriented script language. Motion programs or "PLCs" with the same language, with some restrictions (can't call motion commands in a PLC program basically).I've been a PMAC programmer for over a decade, so I could droll on and on, but here are the big features:Advanced servo algorithms, all the knobs you could want (there is also a "simple" PID servo algorithm as well)Lots of filtering options for vibration suppression (nth order low pass and notch filtering, trajectory pre filtering, etc)Motor commutation at the controller (if you want, or if the drive doesn't handle it, like with linear amplifiers). Can do things like phase advancing/field weakening, etccustomizable encoder conversion tables. Literally anything can be a feedback source, not just encodersDon't want to use the built in algorithms of need to do something more unique? Write your own servo or phase routines in C, C code generation area is built into the IDE, which is based on Visual Studio, makes getting used to PMAC development familiar to most programmersservo tools for each loop (position, velocity, current loop if doing direct PWM drive control, cascaded servo loops, cross coupled gantry servo gains, etc)customizable clocks (phase, servo, real time interrupt, etc)basically unlimited flexibility in coordinate system configuration, and number of coordinate systems (128 or 256, I forget)Motion programs are coordinate system agnostic (if you have multiple XYZ coordinate systems, you can call the same motion program, no need for multiple programs)write your own event driven programs in the C area (position capture, real time interrupt, etc)Dedicated forward and inverse kinematics programming area for controlling custom linkage setups (delta, scara, 5 or 6 axis, or anything else really. If you've got the math nailed down, you can code it in PMAC)XY2-100 and SL2-100 support for controlling galvosservo/stepper drive commands can be +/-10V, step and direction, direct PWM, motion networks (EtherCAT, MACRO)position and torque compensation to increase accuracy by an order of magnitudefire-on-position outputs, armed at the gate, so output is synced down to single encoder tickwide range of encoder support (quadrature, sin/cos, ever absolute protocol I've ever come across, including the elusive Japanese protocols like Yaskawa)I2T protection for when the drive doesn't have it (some linear amps)Runs Debian Linux in parallel with the PMAC kernel. The Linux side is completely opened up, you can do whatever you wantThere's plenty more I probably missed but here's the manual. It's a ferrari, it came out of the CNC world. Applications can be either super simple or wildly complex. I live in the wildly complex space (semiconductor manufacturing, custom robotics, additive manufacturing, precision machine tool, like nanometer and picometer level stuff)Read more in the manual. Happy to answer any questionshttps://assets.omron.com/m/2c1a63d391d6bfa3/original/Power-PMAC-Users-Manual.pdfEdit: wow I formatted that horribly the first timeThere are a lot of options and some are extremely specialized. Often the motor and controller are speced together to ensure compatibility (current / voltage, brushless / stepper/ servo, etc).I've worked with ones intended to control individual motors, but the most complex ones are designed to drive entire robot arms. Robot controllers from fanuc support synchronized motion across the arm's native 6dof in addition to extra optional axes.The control language is going to vary from manufacturer to manufacturer. Most support CAN, usb, etc. Some offer ladder logic gui control interfaces, others require raw programming (often in c).Generally you'll get position control, velocity control, impedance control, torque control, homing using current /limit switch/etcAs an example, here is a manual from Rockwell Automation: https://literature.rockwellautomation.com/idc/groups/literature/documents/rm/motion-rm002_-en-p.pdfPage 73 has motion instructions. Is there an industry wide standard set of motion commands/instructions? Is there a reliable and popular controller that implements them?Each company's motion controllers generally have their own API, and there's not so much standardization.You could look at the CiA 402 profile standard, which is part of CANopen and Ethercat. There are various commercial implementations in motor controllers/drivers. They often don't adhere fully to the standard though, so off-the-shelf interoperability between brands is not always possible.CiA 402 series: CANopen device profile for drives and motion control: CAN in Automation (CiA)There's some support for using it with ROS:Cia402 Driver — ros2_canopen 0.0.1 documentationGalil is great if you want good pricing, quick turnaround and the ability to use servos and steppers on the same built in amplifier (43547 amp.) configuration is easy.I'm just going to do two things:Note that one of those companies has a word in its name that is like "veins" and the other is SiemensShow myself outI'd recommend Fusion especially if you're a student.Whilst others might be easier to pick up, Fusion is pretty intuitive and powerful. It's also got really good integration for manufacturing.Whilst others might be easier to pick up,My experiance was the opposite.I went through, solid works, sketchup, freecad, openSCAD, some siemens thing and was ready to give up until i found Fusion360.Fusion is pretty intuitive compared to the rest if you have no CAD experiance.Has anyone tried onshape? Is it any goodI'm a novice/amateur that got into robotics via my kids' participation in middle school and high school robotic (FIRST). I'm a big fan of onShape but admittedly have no other experience to compare it against. It was very easy for the the kids and I to learn.You could just start with tinkercad just so you get an idea of 3D modelling. Then you can move on to Fusion360 like within a week. Fusion is easy to pickup and you can find a lot of tutorial on youtube.i found this playlist helpfulhttps://youtube.com/playlist?list=PLHEouj-sdEJEm_xextUwnfhRJEdUs2hn4&si=a0G_3P7c10qtnlS5Also you could practice using this bookhttps://zlib.pub/book/autodesk-fusion-360-exercises-200-practice-drawings-for-fusion-360-and-other-feature-based-modeling-software-7jm9rmualfg02nd on fusion, if you ever get very into it and want to move to something more professional but still familiar you can switch to inventory, from there you'll be familiar enough with cad that you could easily swap to solid works.Fusion360what do you want to do exactly? fusion is cool but does not support simulationFusion hands down! That’s mainly what we teach people that are past the simplicity of TinkerCAD but don’t want to pay for a professional program. You can download our free book at CADclass.org if you’d like :)I have professional experience with Creo, NX and Catia. The easiest to learn and use was Creo Elements Direct Modelling. That answers your questiin, but I can't recommend it because you will be learning a program that hardly anyone uses anymore.Plasticity has a relatively good amount of features for is lower learning curve. It’s not free though and Fusion does have more features.Based on your comments, it is unclear what you want to do. To build a robot (even starting from a pre built robot), cad is useful for designing the mechanical parts of the robot.For example, say you have a base with wheels/motors/etc… already, and you want to mount sensors, computer, etc… CAD is useful for designing the structure for mounting everything. Often, you can even find the cad models for sensors (and prebuilt bases like from clear path), so you can create cad model of your entire robot.However, to test your electric/power is correct, CAD won’t do that for you. Further, if you want to simulate movement/sensors, CAD won’t do that either.Can any of this software apply to 3D printing? I would like to learn both too.Any of the CAD software packages discussed in this thread will allow you create the 3d model of the object and a slicer software will convert that model into code that instructs the 3d printer. Some CAD software has slicing software built-in, but it's usually not very functional.I agree Fusion is good, but I prefer Onshape. It's like a more futuristic version of Fusion. Many people just don't know Onshape exists yet. Solid is easyFusion 360. It's not my personal favorite, but I think it's probably the most accessible for a hobbyist, novice, and/or student. There are really good tutorials built-in and numerous resources on YouTube. It also has native CAM, which may come in handy if you start actually manufacturing things. OnShape is probably the next best option, solely for being free/low cost and cloud-based. However, it is the option I have the least experience with so others may prefer it. It is used extensively in FIRST Robotics.I've used SW for 20+ years and picked up fusion about 5 years ago, it has a subtle leaning curve but I really like fusion. I highly recommend it for hobbyistsONSHAPE!Onshape all the way. It's free for students, fully online, and has "share" capabilities!Solidworks but it is not freeWhat is the Siemens learning challenge?Edit: here’s the only thing I can find about it. Not sure what the challenge is though.Rethink Robotics was the only “industrial” robot arm maker I am aware of that used steppers. And the biggest complaint about them was the anemic power. They sold it as a safety feature.Generally industrial robots will use servomotors and high reduction low backlash gearing: strain wave (harmonic) or cycloidal drives.I guess I just have a misunderstanding of the different style of motors then. Like if I look up KUKA, what I see is stepper motors at the joints. Are those really just brushless DC instead?"...says company which makes robotics and automation."Haha. I tend to think big companies are more subtle, but you're probably right. One of our website's recent headlines: Metal belts are driving robotics industry growth, says metal belts companyIt depends how you hook up the gripper. Is there rg2 an io-link device? Really, it depends if it's hooked into the robot controller/robot field bus. Or if you contact it directly to the plc. If it connects to the robot then you will need to trigger done internal variable with mxautomation (in said I don't have any direct experience with mxautomation), or of you connect it directly to your plc then you can just trigger it using PPC code.Hi, the gripper will be connected to the switch. So the question is do I just need to enable the switch port. I’m also not sure how exactly to go about it. All examples so far only showcase gripper being connected directly to KukaI started off as a mechanical design engineer and I knew I really disliked the work, but that I was super interested in robotics (motor control, embedded systems, mobile robot theory, etc), so I just applied to as many jobs that dealt with robots as I could, regardless of location/pay. From there, it wasn't easy to internally switch over to the EE/CS side of things, but it does allow you to work on projects on your own time in those domains and leverage the fact you worked at a robotics company to get a position in those fields wherever else.Getting the first one, in my opinion, was the hardest oneNo offense intended, but asking to enter one of the most competitive fields while expecting the company to pay for your education is a big request.It’s typically only feasible if you have exceptional talent with proven results, know someone in a high position within the company, or are already in grad school working on research that aligns with the company’s technical goals.Start a hobby project that you’re passionate about and compliments the type of position you want to apply to. Create a website showcasing this project and put it on your resume. This will be an impressive thing to discuss in an interview and might set you apart from the thousands of other people looking for an internship or beginning role in robotics.I wish you luck! 🦾Source: Senior Robotics EngineerNo offense taken brother. I appreciate your response!Just wondering but is robotics currently more competitive than software engineering at a tech company? That has a large number of total jobs (tens of thousands plus all the swes working elsewhere). I had the impression that robotics is bifurcated into 2 fields:Traditional automation, with established companies like Siemens. Lots of jobs but it's all a dead end. Everything is hard coded and does not benefit from any of the recent advances in AI whatsoever. Any vision is computer vision from school with your corner and line detection etc. lots of hard coded PLC logic and positioners and custom tooling solely for a single task.Startups trying to apply the recent AI advances to robotics, usually they call their stack "end to end neural network". (Better not thats retarded and a donkey car is that)I know Tesla and figure and Deepmind are this, as well as a few others.The total headcount of those 3 companies for engineers working on the robotics is less than 1000 people total and at most there are 100 openings, possible much less at the moment.Oh there's Amazon robotics, they hire a lot. Nvidia has a group.As near as I can tell, there are dead end jobs that don't pay (category 1) and jobs that are working on the future that everyone wants (category 2)FYI I work as a data center MLE with years of embedded experience, I am likely qualified to work on robots but have just been wondering if there are realistically opportunities for me. It appears about as hard as becoming an astronaut and a waste of time to apply.Most of the robotics engineers I know, including myself, got the position through one of two routes: internship -> full time or grad school project sponsor -> full time.was this done during your studies or after graduation?how exactly did you land the internships?what exactly was your knowledge like during that time? like how comfortable were you when it came to robotics knowledge.also how long did it take for you to land internship to a full time position?There's smart dude-ets too.But secondly... I know low pay sucks. But there's an old saying, "I'd rather be at the bottom of a ladder I want to climb, than halfway up one I don't want to climb..."I did a lot of robotics stuff in college/high school. FIRST Robotics competition, etc. Built robots as a hobby was part of an underwater robotics club (MATEROV,RoboSub) in college. Did a undergrad thesis in robotics. Now I work at a university/oceanographic institute doing AUV research for the Navy.It's my first job. It doesn't pay well (60k HCOL) but is very interesting technically and hands on (not a total desk job) and helps me get experience to level up for my next job. I also live at my parents so that helps.There are better paying robotics job though but you do need experience.I would say for you, search hard for any robotics opportunity available at your university (working in a lab with robotics or adjacent research) or otherwise. If not robotics maybe look for things like computer vision, graphics, aerospace work, electronics, machine learning. Lots of pillars of robotics in multiple disciplines.If you cannot obtain opportunities through your university. Try to do your own personal projects. If you need help this subreddit has a discord. Lots of communities online if you need peers to work with/ask for help.If you have no university do a personal project. With just a PC you can play around with robot operating system (ROS), simulators (webots, etc), path planning, etc. If you have more cash build something. I've always though building a self-balancing robot would be a cool project with a lot going on (IMU, microcontroller, 2 motors). You could probably find steps on Instructables.Stick any project or research on your resume and apply to jobs. Should be very helpful.I’ve read some of your follow up questions.There is no “do exactly this and it will work” answer, stop trying to find it.Also, if you bring that attitude to work, you. Will. Not. Succeed.I got into industrial automation and work with robots every day. I did this with an EE degree and taking some r/PLC electives.