Solidcam already supports and has a post for some swiss machines. The third party reseller is responsible for creating the post, sort of how that racket works.Part makerIMHO, I'd just pick the siemens controller. It is more widely used and has more resources online for it. Physical interface should not be much of a thought because it is all down to muscle memory after a few weeks.Having one controller be the odd one out makes that entire machine the one no one wants to run because the controller is "hard". I've seen it at a few shops where one guy ends up running it because he is the only one who knows the controller.Thank you :)Both controls are good.The Syntec is lesser know in N. America than in China. (In China its the 2nd most popular control, behind Fanuc)With the Siemens control, you will be paying a premium for everything. Not sure there is an advantage for the price.The Part Probe with the Syil is Pioneer?, if you want a Renishaw, you will have to buy and install that separately. That was my choice on my Syil.In the end, the "Control" is just an interface. Unless you are "Long Hand" programming at the control, the impact is not much.IMO get the Syntec spend the saving on the good Holders and Fixtures.Yes I was going to purchase a renishaw, that’s what I’ve been using on all our machines here and I like them a lot, unless you think it’s probably better to just get the pioneer?I believe you need the 220ma controller for 5 axis, at least that's what I've seen on the fb group. If not, I'd wait on silvercnc. I have their 4th axis and zero point plates and it's excellentok. so the guy that installed the machine just told us to leave that number there all the time 1.385 (number 2 in my image). we are using a spoil board (MDF) with a Nominal Thickness of 12mm, and with a caliper measure its 11.625mm. as far as i understand G54 represent local coordinate system and i guess if I were to use multiple G54 G55 G56 Etc i could specify a unique Z for according to the work pieces thickness i want to cut (assume each piece have different thickness). i don't see the reason behind having a constant Z=1.385 on the G54. Another thing is that i don't understand is the term "External Shift" .My question: Does the spoilboard thickness should be located under "External Shift" or somewhere else.cutting without having the 1.385 value result in z pocketing which is too deep, so we left it there for now until we understand the reason for that. one of my assumptions is that the z probe sensor compress that distance (1.385mm) and that's a compensation for that?unfortunately, we don't have proper support for this machine. it comes with a 'SYNTEC 6MB' (Taiwan) controller and the assembly of the structure is made in china.I'm really confused about that Z values, the compensation for tool length (We have 8 tools magazine) and the mix with the spoilboard (the x and y are straight forward so its ok). for the G code we assume we use the bottom of cutting piece (top of spoilboard) as the origin for Z.Do you use for instance G93 to set the zero point of your part when you program?Sorry if I am saying things you already know... there are a few different coordinate spaces, and you pick which one you want by using G54, G55, etc. The page you have here shows offsets from machine zero point (which is usually G53) to the coordinate space zero points.The "External Shift" lets you reposition the machine zero point for all of the user-defined coordinate spaces, at once. So the Z11.625 offset is moving all the coordinate spaces up 11.625 (mm, presumably) from the machine Z-axis zero (as far down as it goes, presumably). This sounds like it is taking the spoilboard into account. Imagine if you had four different jobs set up, each in a different coordinate space, and then you replaced the 11.625 mm spoilboard with a 15.5 mm one. You would just increase the external shift Z value to 15.5, and all the workspace coordinates would be correct.Now that does not explain why you have a separate 1.385 mm Z offset in the G54 coordinate space.How do you find the top of your parts?What is that? A SYIL or something?You may be able to use a generic 4ax mill post. Would have to configure the machine to have the rotary in the YB orientation, but they're nothing special afaik. Editing fusion posts is ezpz. The NYCCNC dork has a great video on how to use visual studio code to debug and troubleshoot post processors.Thanks for the tips. It's an Acctek machine from China.M codes tend to be builder specific outside of the most basic M03-M04 etc.Mine is M51M51 = ON M59 = OFFOn the one I use.If you aren’t comfortable in the ladder already stay out!!! BUT that’s the only surefire way to see what mcodes are used/active. Best bet it check the op manual because all machine tool builders are different in their mcode choice, or ask the same question for your exact machine.Yea I’m not sure I tried all those and still nothing. I’ll keep plugging away at it I have a manual button I can push. Thanks for all the suggestions!Take tools out of the spindle and turn your rapid and feeds down, m17 and m18 are usually on/off for air blower.If you have an auxiliary button you can press that, then you might see what m codes are active on your MDI screenMine is M80 to start the air cycle.From my memory I think it’s m114, I may be wrong thoughFrom my memory I think it’s m114, I may be wrong thoughM57 on m67 off for mineIt’s M07 on my fanucMine is M50Mine is m72/73My machines are M7, M151, or M50. Sure you have that feature?M83 and M84M14 M15 on star swissTry m12M83 on m84 off.U sometimes worksIf you write simple code G04 X2500; (2.5 seconds) M00;Will this work?I use it with my Haas and personally really like it. Hopping between complex designs and cam programming without having to export and import is a big time save for me. And I can generate drawings and animations for instructions and videos from the same software too.There are more powerful solutions but not anywhere close to this price point. Look at what licenses for master cam and solidworks would run you.What’s the total cost for fusion? Their website says around $2k but that seems pretty lowLove fusion. Didnt really enjoy 4th axis simultaneous with it and never did 5axis with it but never had limitations on 3axis. If you already know any CAD software you'll pick it up very quick.I use Fusion daily, I am pro Autodesk products and I have used several different ones. I like Fusion because I can draw, simulate, and machine in one software. Additive or Subtractive, it does well for 3 Axis mill or lathe, 4th axis simultaneous is tricky, 5th axis is just positioning nothing crazy for full 5. But you get what you pay for on that part. It is relatively in expensive for a single seat user, I have a hobby seat and I can get most of my work done.Fusion is great for design and 2, 2.5, and 3D machining. Multi-axis starts to get a bit awkward, for instance there is almost no 4 axis support and you just need to over-constrain a 5 axis toolpath. But I still use it as my main CAD/CAM daily and it is great.I do for mold building. There are some things it does very well and some things where it struggles like any cad/cam package. It is fantastic for designing and machining electrodes for sinker EDM, excellent for 3 axis cavity work.Biggest limitation for us is no Wire EDM programming capabilities.I use 360 on Mazaks, Hurcos, Okuma, sometimes on Bystronic lasers. Lathes, mills, all of them. Twin spindle with live tooling lathes, swivel head Hurcos with 5axis, the only machine i have to really go in and work on code is the hyper quadrex programs. Twin spindle twin turret, 360 does not have a post for it. Inventor can do it, but i find it much easier to just write the programs at the machine in mazatrol for the hyper quadrexesI got rid of master am milling for it cause it's way cheaper and faster for me for 3axis partsThe software is fine. That's it, it's fine. It's far below SOLIDWORKS but does what a general purpose cad software should do.Assembly mates are stupid, unintuitive. Cam is only OK, but does not offer toolpath control near what mastercam can.The reason why I dislike it is because of their forcible use of cloud services. I've had nothing but constant issues about licensing, even to the point where I had to completely reinstall the program multiple times. If fusion was a completely local program, I would actually recommend it to people!So is fusion 360 free or not? I got down voted like 200 times for saying you had to pay for fusion 360 last time I commented on a post talking about it.I've only used it for 3-qxos machining so far but I absolutely love it. It's my preference over Mastercam, Gibbscam and Catia. The tool paths look great, it's easy to use, and it's only $70/month.I used it when I first learned to setup CAM for a HAAS VF2 and a DMG Mori mono block machine. I know a bunch of machine shop in New England that use it for everything. For designing I’m using SolidWorks because I’m more comfortable with it but for CAM it is extremely well thought out.Drawing on it is decently close to SW which makes it pretty easy for me to use on my home cnc. Writing tool paths is way different on f360 than SW and it gives me a lot of trouble, but just something that needs practice.I hated it. But i grew up with mastercam. The people that use it daily really seem to like it. I thought it was quirky.I use it everyday. Boss does design work in solidworks and sends me step files, I “fix” them in fusion (make them machineable, more efficient to make, aesthetics and such) and CAM the parts out.We use it to program 2 lathes, one of which is live tool, and 2 mills - including 4th axis - for everything we make. I also use it to make/modify sheet metal parts and spit out flat patterns to cut on the laser and model to feed the press brake software for bend programming I have templates saved for common types of parts we make - both on the design side as well as manufacturing side to speed things up.In my opinion, the bang for the buck is hard to beat. You can do 99% of any 3 axis mill and lathe parts using just the basic subscription - which is $500-ish a year. Add the manufacturing add on if you want more of the multi axis stuff.Also, I’m pretty sure the subscription and add ins are 20% off through todayWhy step files ? Imho fusion can Open SolidWorks files directly.Anyway having a machinist in the design cycle who gives a thought or two about machinability is heavenly.Switched from solidworks to fusion360. Worth it.It’s okay, at best. I keep running into limitations.Our engineers use inventor, not fusion, even though it’s available to them. That should tell you something. I would much prefer to use FeatureCam than Fusion.The amount of money saved using Fusion360 over FeatureCam, can be substantial. Also, the extra time to use Fusion over Feature, can also be substantial.Support isn’t great with Fusion, but it’s there.Recently, I used inventor for about 2 years before switching to fusion 360 a year ago. Here are my sticking points with it that differentiate it from other softwares.Cost: On paper, fusion is much cheaper than other CAD softwares. This is true for the base version, but this is only for the manual design, drawing, rendering, and animation features. If you want to use any of the more advanced features like simulation, generative design, or some newer design tools, more than a couple times, you have to pay extra. This is done with their "cloud tokens". You are given a few with a basic subscription that you can use to access the advanced features, but you have to buy more or purchase a more expensive subscription to keep using them. This will more than make up the cost difference for most people. I have used these features on a student's license before, and they are actually very helpful, advanced, and easy to use.Cloud: Fusions cloud saving is nice when you work at multiple sites, with multiple people, or with multiple different computers often. What is annoying, is that exporting/saving any of the parts to a local file can only be done with their web service. This makes it take forever when you want to export a part file for a 3D printer or CNC machine. People with powerful computers will be frustrated at how long it takes for even simple parts. People with weak computers might actually enjoy this because it means they don't need a lot of processing power to use the software.Assemblies: I personally like the way inventor deals with assemblies as a collection of associations between separate part files. It makes them much easier to position and create relationships between. Fusion effectively treats an assembly as a part with a lot of different bodies, but just one layer of higher complexity. This is good for making changes on one part relative to another, but the way they have it laid out, makes it difficult/non-intuitive to create relationships that restrict movement relative to other parts. In my experience, fusion also has more bugs and shows up more unexpected errors when dealing with assemblies than other softwares. This might have to do with them constantly making new features and changes to the software.