It has some differences, but the vast majority is the same. Like tool calls/tool length comp/rotating etc will look different, mine also takes only mpf files but the learning curve is small. Operating it will be different, not programming as much.Plus, programming will be the same, the post for mastercam will do all the work for you. They should know that too, so I’m guessing they want more than just a programmer.Yeah, cause if it was just a programmer position then control wouldn't make a big difference.What does the tool calls look likeM06 T10G43 H10G41 D10Different from this I take it??Thanks for the help, I appreciate it. It would be like a 10 dollar an hour raise if I got the job!The syntax will differ between each machine tool manufacturer and potentially can differ between 840D PL and 840D SL.I work for an OEM and my tool change call is TCH_G(xx), cutter geometry and cutter comp is called by a custom variable, unique to my machine tool brand.Your question is contingent to how the OEM manages this.Post 'should' do most of the work for you, but I'm finding my postability post and mastercam to an extent to be mostly garbage. Actually mastercam has always been garbage...Anyways my configuration has trouble with posting cycles. Especially Cycle832(). Don't get me started on mixing mill and lathe portions without the mill-turn package...Siemens has documentation freely and readily available if you look for it.Windows XP on the newer controls and .......hang on Windows 95 on the older ones. We had 2 DMG 103V's with win95. In general, I very much dislike Siemens controls. The cycles have a really fuckedup syntax.Thank goodness for CAM systems and Postprocessors.Is there a way to check windows version on these ? I’m completely lost with that. I tried alt tab but I think this is windows aero which has been introduced with windows 7 onlyThe 840d HMI can run on the NC only (which is a command-line only linux) or on an industrial PC running windows. Newer machines run Win10 but before that almost everything is possible. But this windows versions are tailored to run machine software, they are severly limited in their functions and siemens specificly mentions to not use any software other then provided by them.The standard procedure to enter the operating system is wait for the splash-screen (the sinumerik or manufacturer logo woth the loading bar) at bootup or shutdown and press E as soon as you can see a countdown. Usernames and passwords are set by the machine manufacturer, but the menu should give you a hint to the windows version.And since i don't know your qualifications (and no, it's not the same as your computer at home, it just looks the same): changes in the windows enviroment of the machine might turn the machine or some of it's functions unusable and fixing it will need a service intervention from the manufacturer.That is not correct. 840D HMI can only run on a PC (PCU or MMC).840D Solution Line can run the OPERATE on the NCU. To access Windows on older machines you have to press arrow down after the Boot screen.On newer machines you can press 3 when the base Version number apears in the lower right screen. If it is very new you have to press 3 on the countdown.I'm from IT, there is a lot of nice informations.I know that siemens says that we shouldn't touch the windows.Are you aware about whitelisting siemens machine processes ?If yes what's the feedback of your side ?No help here. Just wanted to say I hate there software. Same here , There always some alarms...One of your remote pedestals or screens needs to be reset, or reconnectedI rechecked manytimes everything is connectedIMHO, I'd just pick the siemens controller. It is more widely used and has more resources online for it. Physical interface should not be much of a thought because it is all down to muscle memory after a few weeks.Having one controller be the odd one out makes that entire machine the one no one wants to run because the controller is "hard". I've seen it at a few shops where one guy ends up running it because he is the only one who knows the controller.Thank you :)Both controls are good.The Syntec is lesser know in N. America than in China. (In China its the 2nd most popular control, behind Fanuc)With the Siemens control, you will be paying a premium for everything. Not sure there is an advantage for the price.The Part Probe with the Syil is Pioneer?, if you want a Renishaw, you will have to buy and install that separately. That was my choice on my Syil.In the end, the "Control" is just an interface. Unless you are "Long Hand" programming at the control, the impact is not much.IMO get the Syntec spend the saving on the good Holders and Fixtures.Yes I was going to purchase a renishaw, that’s what I’ve been using on all our machines here and I like them a lot, unless you think it’s probably better to just get the pioneer?I would buy it with the Siemens, since that is the most popular controller on those machines. Our DMU50 3rd gen with the Siemens had been nearly flawless for several years now.Thank you 🙏🏼I’d go with Heidenhain tbh. Much easier learning curve than Siemens. For 5-axis machining, Heidenhain is also superior over Siemens.Heidenhein is the best. Easier to use, more memory, more powerful computer, better integrated controls, etc. Less stupid shit behind overpriced paywalls.Downside, at least if you're in the US, is you'll be hardpressed to find people with Siemens CNC controls experience. Heidenhein is basically impossible. You'll have to train yourself and your people to use Heidenhein. This reason alone is why everyone goes FANUC even though it's overpriced poo straight out of the 90s. And the rest go Hass, being barely better being Windows XP era shite (3000$ for 64GB of flash storage? fuck outta here). Sometimes Okuma or Siemens tho.If you're buying this for yourself, 100% go heidenhein.I only have experience wirh Heidenhain so that answer would be easy for meIf you only run Siemens in your shop get the Siemens. If you are a Fanuc shop, HH.We can run both already, we run mazak and okuma, but we have experience with both siemens and HH, HH is way more expensive thoughSiemens is more common in the US and will be easier to get support for, but heidenhain is better IMOExactly. Fanuc only has two things going for it: widespread familiarity and dead reliability. Other than that they are have stayed in the 70s while other brands have surpassed them as technology evolves. For many shops, that is ok. For our shop, fanuc controls are weighing us down.Another vote for Heidenhain. We have a shop full of them. Could never go back to FANUC!Heiden fan boy here.Heidenhain IMHO the best control made. They are actually the old Phillips control. Heidenhain bought Phillips in the 90's if my memory serves me. Siemens is my least favorite control.Heidenhain but I’ve only ran heidenhain, on a mill with universal head so the rotational ability of it makes things so simple. Siemens on a 3+c lathe and it’s certainly got its quirks. Might just be how it’s setup but I find the Siemens rather limited from a conversational standpoint with the milling. The heidenhain is easy to make it do whatever the fuck you want but the Siemens is still newish so still a lot of learning to doI've only ever used Heidenhain and love it! Easy and quick to program.We have a Siemens in a shop full of fanuc, it’s weird… Only one guy knows how to run it and it took a few months to figure out.I hate all things fanuc with a fiery passion. I use heidenhain TNC640 and i absolutely love it to death. We had another machine with a Siemens 840 that i fooled around with and it didn't really tickle my fancy, but i do believe it is a solid choice. I would choose heidenhain over all the rest.Fanuc.For me, the heidenhien control isn't worth it. On a 4 axis capable Doosan it's a 20k option, and the service is significantly more expensive.If a Fanuc machine doesn't come up in the morning, I know it's not going to cost more than 5k to get it fixed.Fanuc service is expensive, but next level. You call them up, tell them you want the full beans. The next day, a pallet turns up with every component in your machine. The day after, a tech turns up, and unless it's a motor or a MTB part, your machine WILL be running.And it'll be that way for the next 15 years. If you can tell me that's true of siemens or heidenhein, I'll eat my hat.definitely Heidenhain, i have programmed on a lot of different control systems ( fanuc , mazatrol, Haas, Heidenhain and Hurcos programming system ) and can honestly say that without any doubt that Heidenhain is by far the best and easiest to use . if i was starting my own shop all vmcs would have Heidenhain.I only use heidenhain so the answer is easy for meI cant help youFanucAvoid Siemens. We have several Siemens controls. Not a fan 👎🏿I run Siemens and Fanuc. Of the two I prefer Fanuc. Ive run the Siemens on and off for probably 10 years and I just don’t find it as good. Saying that it probably worth saying that the Fanuc is my daily.Have experience on all three but the most with fanuc but I do like their controls more alsoWe have all three and the Heidenhain is the best controller hands down. Siemens second, Fanuc third. The Fanuc control is slow, antiquated, and has non-existent memory compared to the other two.A Fadal is just a jazzed up fanucI’ve run a lot of Siemens lathes (Hyundai) Hands down my favorite Big learning curve but worth it. Grooving cycles the best there is. Now non existant- obsoleteI dont like fanuc. Haas is betterI'll have any of them. Boss is obcessed with Mazatrol, but we do not use any conversational, so I don't see the point.FCT button, depending on the control vintage.Agreed. If FCT button does not work, there is a soft button. Either under the DMG button on the “machine” page, or under the “custom” page.Thank for the help. FCT button at the control does not work. External cooling does. Soft keys work as well if I get into that menu but only for external/cooling. Pretty confusing what's the problem here.I worked on a CTX 2500 with Siemens and you had to press the button for water on the control unit. Then the spraydown gun worked for about 2 minutes until you had to press it again.I've had similar issues when the cables loosen up. You might need to open up the panel and check all connections. Otherwise the board might be fried in which case a refurbished unit is probably your most viable option. Siemens rebuilds these components.My first thought is to check the connections. make sure the machine is off before you go wiggling them, though. Unplug them and plug them back in, while you are back there see if there is a model number on the screen and Google the model number for a manual. Try to see if there is a way to recalibrate the screen because it could also be out of Calibration or something (caused by a loose cable).Lastly, if there is a keyboard or something hooked up, make sure none of the buttons are stuck down, preventing the computer from actually activating the buttons on the screen. You can do this while the machine is off and just press/wiggle all of the buttons and switches and then boot it back up.M68 maybe ?Bed flushing is M146 or M164 on our DMG with 840D. Might vary from machine to machine tho. Its probably a MTB choice, not a Siemens default.Most machines I've run used M48/M49 to disable/enable the overrides in a program. Don't have anything with Siemens so your M-code may vary but I almost guarantee there's a code to disable the overrides.My heidenhains do thisI have the M code list but there are no M codes specified unfortunately. I’m in contact with the machine supplier and they have to change some PLC programs, thanks anyway!Check out OVR and OVRA in the Siemens variables.I have tried this but not with the desired outcome. OVR is an extra override, for example: with F1000, Override on 80% and OVR on 50% you’ll get F=(10000.800.50)=400. With OVRA you need to specify an axis/spindle but since I want to use it on an hardening machine there is no spindle specified.I’m in contact with the machine supplier and there are some ways but they need to nodigt some PLC programs. Thanks for the help!840D has a hard counter some where around the main power switch.Our one has analog counter on machine, but the other one doesn't.I have no experience with CYCLE800, but if it works like fanuc DWO then:Don't bother. It's not worth it. You have your WCS on the front of your platter at the moment. Just stick it in the centre of rotation of your zero point in X, centre of rotation of your 4th in Z and Y.Then just model and let fusion do the coordinate transform. It's not like you're going to be putting pieces at random positions on a rotary trunion, it's alwasys going to be located around your zero point.Then all you need to do is a small post process edit so that when it sees an A axis move, it moves the table home, M00 and a program comment on what to rotate the zero point angle to.We have a machine with 840d but no cycle800. We changed the post to give out the position of the a axis as parameters (r parameters) and call a macro. The macro takes the g54 offset (or whatever you are working on) and does some math with the values to calculate where the offset should be on the angle that is programmed. It then writes the values on g599 and uses that offset for machining.Everything where you have to dick around in cam every time you set something up ist bullshit in my opinion. I am working with large machines, though and my programs have to work for a guy who doesn't have access to cam so the best solution for you might be something else.May I ask what Siemens control? If it is an 828 or 840 or maybe even a "sinumerik one" But no matter wich one it is when you find out how Siemens makes sense you can get the control to do pretty much anything. Especially if it is an 840d.It's 828d. I have used the same controller on an almost similar Jyoti CNC at a different shop before too, this is a very versatile one.One of the main jobs for this will be machining rope threads on couplers and drivers.The PCU50 is used mainly as part program memory expansion. It has some other capabilities such as running step 7 classic for interfacing with the PLC, easy networking, and other higher level functions. Without the PCU50 the screen would be a thin client that would be displaying the screens as rendered on the NCU. The Sinumerik 840D as you are referring to it is actually the NCU and it is the brains for making all of the motion and PLC work.Sinumerik 840D is the name for the whole system and all of the parts that work together to create the CNC control.Thank for the clarification :)On my machines Thru Spindle Coolant has its own on and off codes. M07 is mist, M08 is flood, and M09 turns them both off. M88 is thru spindle and M89 is thru spindle off. M09 Won't turn off Thru Spindle Coolant, M89 has to be used. You may have to assign thru spindle off its own M code in your controller.Your controller is likely wired to the coolant solenoid via a relay output. You should be able to check the output of the controller with a multimeter (solenoid is llikey 120VAC or 24VDC) when you turn the cooolant on/off. Could be anything from a bad output, blown fuse (if it's protected), or a solenoid that's toast. Find your supply voltage, trace it down the line until you find the culprit.Siemens has an Academy that has Turning Manufacturing Techniques courses. They are 4-5 days long and pricing varies. Great class and lots of great material that you can revisit.From my experience they like to keep the tech side of things under lock and key so that you have to pay them to come out and do repairs. However while that technician is in your shop there's nothing stopping you from asking them questions and watching what they do. I actually became friends and exchanged numbers with the Siemens technician who used to come out and do maintenance work for us.We do all the maintenance work and all of the older guys are totally proficient on running the machines in maintenance mode, and they are teaching me. I was just seeing if perhaps there was a user manual for operators/technicians I could study in my off time.Sinumerik documentation has good enough resources for beginners, go through it. By the way what is this code about ?I just pulled up a random program block. I can alter programs just fine but we would like to know how to write a program from scratch, to be able to make a wave flute on an endmill.We downloaded the controls handbook but it doesn't tell you anything useful for using theses controls on a mill.Probably but I have over 200 different programs that I have altered and they all run just fine. I was just looking for help on a wave flute.I'm not aware that there is but I haven't looked into it specifically. I just use G91 when I want incremental movesContact your DMG MORI salesman or applications engineer directly. They will figure it out.If they don't help, call the national service line. There are some very talented AE's working the phones in Chicago.You paid for all of this support when you bought the machine. Put it to use.With a certain amount of experience, CAM on a 5 axis is going to be faster than manually machining multiple facets. That's just a sidenote.On another sidenote, who the fuck buys a DMU 65 without properly trained employees to utilize it? Don't they start at 400k new?Onto the actual question: nah man. i don't even know.I used to run a DMU50 at an aerospace place making titanium brackets. 4 hour cycle time with zero training on QC or operation. I quit that job. That's all of my relevant experience.feelsbadman.jpgIF I HAD TO GUESS.IF I HAAAD TO.I would imagine there's a way to set a new work offset for each face machined. Kind of like manually doing what the machine should somehow know to program (or your CAM should know how to program). Kinda like this:machine face one as G54 (x,y,z,b,c)2) clear tool above workpiece, keep your G98 HIGH AS FUCK3) program b and c axes to move to next face4) set new workpiece face as G55 (new x,y,z)5) machine that face6) run everything in single block at all times7) lose your shirt in programming time8) send someone to train to program 5 axis machining9) ???10) profitAssuming it's the same as an 840D control, you put a ";" in front of your comment.Siemens website has a programming manual for these machines. Used to use it all the time. IMO they easily have the best software. There are so many wild things you can do on a Siemens.I have a lot of 2100's and I have to do ;(comments)Worked, thanks very muchif you want the message show up in the top row you can also use msg ( YOUR TEXT)if it works like siemens 840d ofcourseBeginning of the line should be a semicolon, it should turn light grey after thatM0; notes should look like thisM0Cheers mateI run an 828d and leave myself messages a lot. Format is,NXX MSG ("YOUR TEXT")You need both the brackets and quotes.You can get rid of the message later on withNXX MSG ()In Heidenhain iTCN it's a #, in 828d it should be a ; It's been a while since I've used Sinumerik"With great power comes great headaches" that's how NX was explained to me when I was getting started with it. Super capable powerful software for CAM that I generally enjoy using, especially because we have digital twins for the machines I use it on. I have near 100% confidence it won't crash.do you know somewhere where I can find tutorials? the ones my uni gave are quite bad.Yeah honestly it's hard for me to use fusion360 or soldiworks after spending so much time in NX, just because everything else crashes all the time.I am a 14 year veteran of NX and disagree with you. Step files are actually pretty easy to open with the software and as far as changing the MCS it’s not complicated. I went through Siemens training for 3 months and became a lead tutor in NX with a major defense contractor that I work for. We not only use NX to design we also use it to program all of our machining centers in our shops. In my opinion it’s a great design tool.Step files are actually pretty easy to open with the softwareI hope by pretty easy to open you mean literally clicking it and opening it because if it's more than that holy fuck.If you think NX is bad, dont ever try 3dexperience.NX has a steep curve but its extremely powerful and very robust.Your spelling and grammar really show you will make a great programmer some day.I can't speak for NX itself until I can convince my company to give me a license, which I think runs $30k (only hearsay, don't know exactly). If I need to model something I just fire up AutoCAD.I do use Teamcenter and VizPro for a lot of development and prototype work though. Usually it's for telling engineers "shit ain't gonna fuckin work mate".I think NX shines more when complex assemblies, workflows, and overall hands-in-the-pot are going on. I think data security capabilities also win in that regard.I don’t think ergonomic is the word you are looking forNX is my fave I’ve used. Surface modeling and wave linking are so powerfulTrying to network my cnc to a pc but cant seem to change the ip on the cnc it keeps reverting back to DHCP when i try to manually change the ip to a unique oneIt gives me promt to reset (po) which i have done with manufacture mode onDunno why it keeps reverting. Some maint/admin access missing? I'd put in a router and use it to assign a static ip to the Siemens MAC address.Like a internet router just for the cnc so u can put it in static ip? 🤔Does my pc have to be connected via ethernet or is it fine if it’s wifi to the company networkRunning wifi to the company's network form the pc would work. Then harcwire Ethernet to the cnc connected router. Set up the cnc-side router on a seperate subnet from the corp side, and don't bridge the two connections on the pc ifl the cnc doesn't need to be on the corp network. Example, corp network could have it's router and dns at 182.168.1.1. CNC network router and dns could be something like 192.168.10.1. NC and other critical stuff doesn't always have the protections necessary to be connected to the outside. Besides, if it's running well, does it really.need to phone home? I've got an old CMM that I will never connect to the outside. It'd be like dumping a puppy in the middle of an eight lane expressway.Thanks for the info I’ll give it a tryYou're looking for a CAM software with a post-processor for Siemens controllers.Fusion360 might be the most accessible for you.It looks like a 3d printer gcode but not really.What is this file ?It's just CNC g-code. Siemens controllers look for a .mpf file extension but it's a text file.Hi, thanks for your answer. I will check fusion360 and other CAM software. I suppose the difficult part is to find the correct post-processor.Chez nous on utilise fusion 360 et on met le fichier .nc sur une clé USB et on copie colle dans un fichier .ISO sur l'ordi sous windows 95Salut, merci pour ta réponse, par contre je me questionne, si tu utilises fusion360 qui te permet de générer le fichier, qu'est ce qui te force a utilisé un Windows95 ?How would i create the directory if it doesnt exist or do I even need it to connect my cnc to a windows pcMessage me later, I’ll take a screen shot of my setup when I get into the office later today.Appears to be a Linux based OS, but take this with a grain of salt.A friendly warning. If you're thinking about making any changes to that copy of the embedded windows. Or attempting to install anything like antivirus software. Yeah I would say don't. You're going to end up with a non-running machine.There should be no access to the internet from that machine under any circumstances anyway. That machine should only be on a closed network. There should be no internet access.So antivirus and hardening is a very bad idea ?When you first switch the machine on there should be a screen when it shows what operating system it is going to boot, Windows boot manager I believe. It will probably only show for 1 second or less but when it does you need to use the arrow down or up keys to move the selector to the windows option. This maybe an option that highlights with no text name.I run an old danobat 840D sinumerik that you can access the start menu by pressing the control key and then the alarm cancel button at the same time.Depends if Operate runs on a PCU / IPC or on the NCU.I think this one runs on a PCU. So after Boot or EXIT there should apear a countdown somewhere 5 to 1.  Press 3 to Boot in Windows.If not press 3 when the base Version apears in the lower right corner.Still hard to understand how these function 😂 For this one you right.I noticed that we have multiple scenarios :840D with PCU running windows And 840D without PCU running Linux.All of these can run DOS by default alsoCan a NCU handle windows or any OS ? I know that there is a virtual PLC S7 inside sometime.There’s a key you have to press when it’s booting the windows embedded to allow it continue into windowsYeah but without booting ?So why do some companies load their software over Windows anyway? When they power up a new nuclear powered aircraft carrier, they don't load navy.bat over Windows. Nobody has downloaded virus.funhouse.exe into their Chevy Cruise and had the airbags jettison everyone out the sunroof. And my pacemaker never shows up on anybodies wireless network. If it would have saved them fifty cents, the auto makers sure as hell would have used Windows XP in their cars. So why is anybody using Windows for shop equipment and tempting fate that some bored button pusher is going to have enough self control to not try to install solitaire on their lathe?And what does Hordmann and Alzmettal mean?It might be due to you not loading tools into the tool chain and into the spindle.The buffer pocket is the pocket it's going to store the spindle too so theoretically it should be right but sometimes these controls want things done a certain way.Like our 830 won't allow our lathes to use positioning to drill holes across from one another. You have to use the bolt circle feature that does the exact same thing but is different somehow.There was 0 tools in the magazine i input 1 in the spindel. Then 2 tools on slot 1 and 3, slot 2 gives alarm saying its a buffer pocket.But this alarm shows up each tool change Also how do u change the tool currently in the spindel and make it go back into the magazineOutside of that, what happens if you load them to different pockets?We have an 828D on our tool room lathe and honestly it’s so difficult to figure out what is being asked for by the controller. Im lost on a Siemens control though, I learned on FANUC and then Haas.I know for simulations you have to have tool geometry, part and blank geometry, and work coordinates properly defined or it cannot calculate. Something as simple as the wrong length or width of your insert can cause this.Are you using the shop turn programming or running g-code?Are you programming in “shop turn” or uploading g code?Made Pictures because i don't wanna translate from German, but this is basically reloading all the Parameters for the Simulation.Control almost not working, help menu alsoCompany 1. Learning NX will open you up to bigger opportunities. We have a programmer position open right now at my place. Pay is $39/hr with room to grow in the future. Requirement is someone who has a few short years od NX under theire belt.Go with the one that will teach you the most, or the one you want to learn. I would go for the company utilizing Siemens NX.Who's paying more, what are the benefits like, what are the hours like, what's the commute like, what's the room for improvement, will they train you and let you move up?I'd go for aluminum work. More forgiving, more cutting edge programming, since you have to go faster, less frustration.Either way, sound like you're getting into some pretty cool stuff. I think the difference professionally is negligible, it just comes down to personal taste.Most aerospace shops Use Mastercam. You're gonna have a hard time finding another shop that actually uses NX.And in terms of experience, having experience with a wide range of materials makes you a lot more marketable than just machining aluminum.This is a little bit regional.Boeing St. Louis (Military) uses NX and at least one of the larger suppliers follows suit.Boeing Washington (Commercial) uses Catia. Of course some shops follow suit.Boeing pays more for a Catia/Unigraphix guy than they do a Mastercam guy. About $10/hr more.Benefits play a big role in the decision for me. How many days of PTO? 401k or pension plan?Personally? Shop 2. Mostly because I prefer smaller shops - the smaller the shop, the more focused they'll be on you and your potential as an individual. It's a lot easier to prove your worth and move up in a small shop.Honestly, I'll never work in aerospace again just because of the paperwork and micromanagment necessary to running an operation like that. I get why it's important, especially in aerospace, but it's just not my cup of tea.I've only ever seen the 828D which is very similar to the 840Dsl. There have been many advancements made to the Siemens control as a whole in the last ten or so years. I speak very highly of them because they're a really great control. The conversational, however, I'm a little iffy about because I'm biased from my days on Mazak mills and Mori conversational is also quite good. Shopmill leaves some to be desired when coming from those systems.Download sinutrain and use the trial version to get a feel for it.Is the Sinutrain a shopmill system or like a sinumerik?I run 828ds daily. Anything specific you have problems with?Your machine control should have a pretty good built in indexed manual. I am not kidding you, look for the [ i ] button labeled "Help". Three quarters of what I know about running that controller I know from that button lol.All I'm looking for is an example of a roughing/finishing canned cycle.I have the geometry I want to run but im getting syntax errors when I input everything.The manuals im finding online are somewhat helpful but they seem to kinda bounce around.I'm not sure exactly what im doing wrong but it seems to be with the way im calling the cycle.I think you will be much happier if you do your programming in SHOP TURN.It's the Siemens conversational that is built into the controller. When you start a new file, you have the option to make a .MPF file or a Shopturn file. There is tons of documentation and instructions online. It is arguably the best conversational system for turning.If you insist on programming longhand, I still recommend you abandon ISO formatting and just used the Siemens canned cycles so you get a nice, graphical interface.At this point I will take either one. I've tried both and can't get either to work.I have about 6 different manuals with various formats for each downloaded. none of them will run due to syntax errors but nothing I change fixed the issue alarms are vague and don't help much.Manuals didn't come with the machine so im really at a loss here as to what I actually need.I have no options to create a shopturn profile. I have .mpf wpd mpf spf and the rest are offsets and tool data.https://support.industry.siemens.com/cs/document/109768584/technical-documentation-for-sinumerik-840d-sl-version-4-92?dti=0&lc=en-CAI ran the 810d for over a decade. I believe the 840d is very similarThe conversational programming on that is so powerful, there is very little you can’t do with it. From your pic in one of the submenus, if I remember right the arrow facing right, will give you the option of changing to ‘shop turn’ or ‘manual turn’ go with that. From there a program is a collection of cycles put together. Or you can just do it cycle by cycle.That arrow key does nothing on that screen. Left arrow right arrow soft keys all nothing at this point.Tried creating a new file under spf instead of mpf and still nothingG33 thread cutting is usually used with Machines setup with G code system B. Most lathes are system A which means you have to use G32 instead of G33.Try G32 to see if it works.The Siemens controls i know can be set to understand different dialects of G-code.https://cache.industry.siemens.com/dl/files/498/65371498/att_107420/v1/ISO_0909_en_en-US.pdfIdk if that applies to your Touch2000.NX is standard for aerospace here in New England.When in doubt, say you have the experience then binge some YouTube videos. NX is industry standard in much of Europe, it's got a bit more functionality and modularity (I think) than SOLIDWORKS and similar CAD programs.NX is great for collaboration and large companies. Annual maintenance costs for 2 seats of NX design and a seat of NX CAM was about $13K 5 years ago. It’s very powerful, and since it was developed by Siemens it works very well with their Sinumerik control, especially for 5ax work. You don’t just sit down with YouTube and become familiar with it in a couple evenings though, and I wouldn’t recommend saying you understand it if you don’t because it will quickly become obvious. Compared with MasterCAM, SurfCAM, or GibbsCAM, the learning curve for NX is very STEEP.Yes and NX is a bigger beast than other CAD softwares I have used (Solidworks/CATIA). An experienced programmer would likely have no trouble learning but it’s not as easy as “watching some YouTube videos” unless someone has some insanely thorough tutorials of all the thousands of options and sub menus you can navigate.I'm a high-level user of SolidWorks, ProE/Creo and NX.Emphasize your overall experience with CAD. Your familiarity with the process of developing a CAD model is more important than your familiarity with the specific CAD program.I took an NX class about 10 years ago after working with SolidWorks and ProE for a decade. I only needed to attend half of the class sessions to complete the course. If you already know the steps that you need to use to complete a design task (extrude, revolve. . .), the class will simply show you how NX does things differently. Once you get the hang of it, you should be able to self-direct yourself to proficiency.It appears like it would be easy to pick up if you’re familiar with other cad software from the screenshots I just saw on Google. I had never heard of it til now.Yes, we used to or.. some still do. After seeing fusion 360 some 5 6 years ago. I never looked back. It is, together with catia and solidworks to expensive to old fashioned with a poor user interface which only a mother can love. The last thing I used it for was for some 4th axis movement some 4 years ago. I used nx since ideas and ug. It only got worse with the years. Seriously how many menus do one need to make fillets. Choices should be made after you pressed the only fillet button. Just to make a point. Nx hade like... 27 buttons for the same thing with ugly as fuck sub menus. The inheritance from 90s unix is something better left in the 90sPretty common in aero industry. I use NX every dayIt’s a shame when employers aren’t willing to train their employees. Just want that easy turnkey employee with no investment of their own.We use NX for CAD and CAM. Damn expensive. Pretty powerful software, takes quite a bit of work to get the advanced tool library up and running. Training course I was sent to kinda sucked, was left to figure it out for myself. I still like it over GibbsCam or Mastercam.I think NX Is usually more used as a CAD software in big companies but I don't think Is reallt used as a CAM software because there are other more advanced like Mastercam and Esprit. It's Solid Edge's big (and expensive) Brother.Yeah to me it’s all learnable. I find it odd for a company to hinge their whole hiring process in cad software when it isn’t really important IMO compared to experience.I'm curious why you think mastercam or esprit is more advanced than nx?Solid Edge and NX both use the same model engine (Parasolid), many cad systems use this Parasolid model library, but each one does it differently. onShape (online web based CAD) also uses Parasolid and you'll find some similarities to NX. But different.Solid Edge != NX. Suite different markets.We use NXYeah it’s really powerful but not user friendly unless you’re a legacy user. Hypermill is much betterAgree. Shame HyperMill isn’t industry standard at this point as it absolutely shits on MasterCAMI use NX to modify models / make fixtures then I move to mastercam to make programs. Nx can make program just fine but I feel a bit faster with mastercam.The way I was taught to program in NX was more delicate than what I do in Mastercam that’s why it’s faster for me in mastercam.I've used NX, but not in a machine shop / programming setting.The way I put it is: Solidworks designs the machine, NX designs the factory to build the machine.It's pretty big in the Auto and Aerospace industries.When I worked at BorgWarner we had specific designers who used NX for the European auto parts. I asked if I could learn, but was told no need, use Solidworks. Licensing is very expensive, learning curve is steep. We never used the 5-axis features, all our parts were made on Okumas.What's the air speed velocity of an unladen swallow?It honestly depends on how hard you can throw them.African or European?How many times can you turn / repurpose a wheel before you need to get a new one?That will depend on how much damage the wheel has, if it pass the ndt tests, and of course, how much material they have left. I'd say anywhere between 3-5 times? But it's bot my expertise, so take that number with a huge grain of salt.Lmao i do the same for belgium.How do you guys do it? We have 45 hour working weeks.As a machinist myself i've alway wonderd with what kind of tolerances train wheels are machined and with what kind of machine (tool, setup etc..) is it a kind of special lathe ?As for the reprofiling, we use a multi purpose cnc lathe, where we reprofile brake discs, axels and, of course, wheels.Is it true you use Guinness Stout as cutting fluidWhat's your job?Axle-wheel assembly, refurbishment and quality control. When a train is due for refurbishment, we got the axles, take the wheels out, take the bearings out, gearboxes too, refurbish the axles, refurbish the bearings and the gearboxes, reprofile the wheels, reprofile the brake discs, and then assembly everything back together, everything operating on very narrow levels of tolerance.Did you work on machines before, or did the Irish Railway Train you?I did work on machines before, but the railway also gave me an astonishing amount of training.Are you just re-machining the wheels or are you machining new parts for the railway service ?We get axels, wheels, brake discs, gear boxes (with all their inside bits) from external manufacturers all over the EU and we remachine them to our specific specs.Good old Siemens. Drove a lathe with that for many years. Only ever used the manual turn side of it though.All the cnc machines here are siemens, excellent for a cnc mill that's older than the siemens cnc division.Whats you’re most loved Irish expat abroad and why is it Conor McGregor?Hello from Cork! 4th year toolmaker apprentice here working for an aerospace/medical company. Did you do any trade or just start out as an operator?An NX class could be pretty valuable. Depends where you are in your career though.As a general rule NX will be used by companies with more complex machining needs. Having actual NX experience would put you in front of other programmers, but won't be very valuable if you are just starting out.Never give up more training to broaden your knowledge :). I never thought I would use seimens systems until I started I'm my current job. Now I can't imagine going back to any other cam software, or machine systems :)I would absolutely take an opportunity to lear NX if you can! Especially if the learning environment is quality and you have access to a good instructor.NX is probably the definitive overall leader in CAM right now. The Siemens team is constantly pushing it forward. Most CAM systems sort of have their roots in one area of manufacturing, and half-ass the rest of the toolset just to tick feature checkboxes. NX is either best in class or 2nd/3rd across nearly every facet of manufacturing. If I had a job shop with a bunch of machines and wanted One CAM To Rule Them All, NX is the very best choice available.(If I was a Swiss turning shop, or if I did a lot of 3D surfacing tool-path, I might look at other options, but NX can be configured and templates designed for my shop's gear that would still bring it up to something close to what the best Swiss or contours-centric CAM systems can do).Having said that, NX is one of the world's most complex, oldest pieces of software. There is still code lurking under the hood from the days of those green phosphorous screens. Remember, NX is Unigraphics, and if you look up your history of computing, you'll see the name Unigraphics present at the very advent of graphical computing and CAD/CAM. It has a lot of legacy cruft. It has a lot of it's own conventions, and convolutions, and nooks + crannies. The UI is overwhelming with massive features hidden deep in menus and checkboxes. Fundamentally, it operates like any other CAM system (because, let's be frank here, every other CAM system owes it's bones to NX).Having an instructor guide you through all this complexity and get you familiar with the lay of the land is invaluable. Unlike SolidWorks or MasterCAM; NX is typically used by closed-off engineers in giant companies, so the open user community is small, there are limited YouTube tutorials, and classes are big $$$.Could do a 7 degree tapered endmill with a relief grind to avoid the counterbore and a normal endmill for the cb. Probably not the best way but it'll save you the math. Don't know if award does a 7 degree mill buy we run the 10 degree ones and they're great for the price, carbide is like $20 for a 1" doc and the hss is even cheaperThis might be easiestTapered end mill, maybe?Helical interpolate with a small corner rad bullnose endmill, like 0.01" rad. That shallow of an angle and you won't even be able to tell that there is a rad in the corner.I do that shit all the time and it's fine. If the mating part doesn't account for a small inner rad then the engineer needs to go back to school to learn how to design parts for the real world.Swept surface helical down the wall with a flat bottom endmill after rough out.(Its what my Hurco calls it)A CAM software would hit this no problem with and endmill.But SF may be to good right.The 64-125 ra may be a problem. You may want to get a tappered endmill and add in scallops to it as to create the specified surface and maintain it.Rough, semi with flat bottom, and ruff up suface is what I would do.I have done this a few times. On aluminum for some sort of press in plug stopper.Perhaps a single point threadmill, programmed to helical interpolate to get 90ra down the taper?You have options I think.Normally in this case I do radial roughing, then radial finish with a mill with a decent corner rad for a better finish, then finish the bottom with a pretty flat millEdit: ah, drill first of courseYou can buy tapered end millsA assume you are milling it from the top? Drill it and then helical bore it with a radiused slot mill. Hogging is out of the picture with that strategy and you'd have to have one lying around that's the right size to enter the hole and reach the sides at the bottom. Leave some stock you can fuck around a bit with speeds/feeds for a good finish.If bottom, circular bore with a bullnose. Swarf it if you wanna show off.For a turret mill ( Bridgeport) Put it on a rotary table and tilt the head ...I'm assuming you don't have access to cam or custom tooling or you wouldn't be asking this question. Either of those would be simple enough.I would use a macro program to cut the angle/radius with a sharp cutter. Leave a few thou to clean up and keep your step over low. Feel free to dm if you need an example.Drill thru .280”, rough interpolate 7deg taper and .438”bore .leave .020” stock per side and .010”on floor, then use Form tool to finish. Spring pass .438” dia with square endmill if is on the low.Conical Endmills carry 7-degree end mills (14) included. You cool just pre drill and do a circle path at final depth with the tapered em.This will probably be the wayRough with a straight endmill on a rotary. Tapered endmill for a few finish passes....(?)That's probably bestTapered endmill all day. Or a special to interpolate both Dias would work fine in 6061. Def prefer a helical tool, not a straight fluteSince you have a 5 axis you can hand program it using your rotary. Goto your start point let's say X10 y0 c0 go down to to straight bore z-1 make a circle with G2 or G3 and then make a G1 move x5 y0 z-10 c36000. Make the c move as big as you need it to be for your desired smoothness.I've never tried it this way and maybe I'm missing something. You will have to put your hole on xy0. Compensating it being off center might get a little hard if you are not familiar with probing routinesAlso I didn't take into account the actual dimensions since I'm on mobileI was seeing the rest of the drawing is possible to tellInterpolate down and don't tell anyone 🤭Hamburger reset tooAnd Ctrl Alt Delete is practically a single button!Once you go Siemens you never go back.Those are mice are about $220 a piece now from Digikey. They use the same ones for their industrial automation SIMATIC Panel PCs.Grob?I'm also looking into this....I've got some guesses into Cycle832() but I need more time to try things out. I'm also suspecting a look-ahead issue..Siemens has a wide open policy for all their technical documents so find the support page for your controller and dig through.Here's their page for an 840d SL controller...https://support.industry.siemens.com/cs/document/109766213/sinumerik-840d-sl?dti=0&lc=en-WWHave you checked the high speed machining options? Some of our machines, including ones with the seimens/celos/sinumeric controller have "high speed" modes. What they actually do is slow down the feed rate when going into a corner. Without this mode engaged, things like slots will turn out significantly shorter than they are programmed. When it's on it kinda looks like what you described.What commands do you mean specifically?Siemens control? Well so much for it being useful. Siemens controls are a fucking nightmare to use for multi axis work. Much prefer the heidenhain.I scored 30 lb of aluminum and one 20lb steel part.Those igus bushings kits! For some reason one day like 50 of them showed up at my workAmong other goodies, I got about 60lbs in machined parts today as many companies were just chucking their parts they were making during the eventThat is cheating I only got 4 bottles of tap magic, how did you get 6?My boss gave me his samples. He knew they were going to my home shop.I honestly never understood this part of going around shows. I see grown ass men lugging around loot bags filled with mostly just branded garbage, reminiscent of a shopoholic running in between clothing stores in a mall. Tap Magic and the T-slot scraper seem to be the only useful things on the table. 😄The Venn diagram of machinists, autism and hoarding may aswell be a circleCouldn't get any more pens??I am keeping just a handful of them. Rest are going to work so the pen thieves there will leave my good ones alone.... Never get to go but I went to SHOT show onceI am asking Scandinavian folk bcs they are closerOften times the scale can be cleaned and the scale reader head can be replaced independently of the entire scale.I've used the 840d on both a 5axis mill and a lathe. Enjoyed the mill version more but I found both easy to use. However both of the machines came with the 840 as stock not retrofit. Having received rofitted a machine myself and currently doing another one (different controller though) I can tell you that if it's done badly or "hacked" together then it'll generally have some bugs, small and big. Often not even the controllers fault but either hardware issues or not calibrated well.I’m not sure I understand your frustration.Is it when to use the different types of block search?Granted all the 840Ds I work with are 4/5 axis mills, so hopefully it crosses over to what you need.Sparkie in a previous life. When this happened we would go to the supply house and get panel clip nuts. The panel really only has 2-3 threads so if they get messed up you really don't have much to repair. Id also advise not reusing the screw.I did start by purchase a complete, new set of the correct panel trim screws for this Siemens panel.We have a great electrical supply house based in metro OKC, I’ll specifically ask them on Monday regarding the panel “clip nuts” (what I was calling “extruded U nut”.)It’s strange that the neither parts house nor Siemens support offered anything to work with this thread. They would only say that it’s “proprietary” …most people drill, tap and replace with a standard thread.Do you know for sure whether the supply house - or anyone else will have this non-standard, “triple start” thread?As an electrician, I would:Tap out to a 1/4-20. I have those on the truck. Round head, slot & #3 PhillipsSome type of clip nut would work? Some commercial panel come with clip nuts. These panels have a much wider lip to them, usually.I don't know how thick a rivenut is. Those original screws are self threading in the panel. Install rivenut, force screw in ? Or install rivenut, tap to a 10-32, then force in the screw?(I know, I know, not Mr Ten Thousands Precise Machinist .! 🤣🤣🤣🤣)honestly, i am not sure why the electric industry does nt convert to using cage mount screws like these (https://www.amazon.com/Washers-Cabinet-Shelves-Routers-Self-Locking/dp/B0C77RFM5Q)should you be able to strip it out, its like a 30 sec job to swap with a new cage nut.I have to ask, why the fixation with triple start? Is this an antique that needs to be restored a particular way?Any single start screw and clips would work.Everyone keeps suggesting the same things he said he doesn't want to do 🤣 His reasoning is a little OCD, but maybe he treats his electrical panel like he treats his car? ShrugRivnuts, if practical, and move on with lifeYeah that's what i would do. Rivnuts are an upgrade.Drill it out and tap new threads for a larger size. Or somehow adhere a nut to the back of the steel so it still holds.You want the BEST solution that perfectly preserves the original TRIPLE START screws? Pay a machinist to make a custom insert/nut with the triple start thread. Be ready to shell out $$$$ for that triple start thread tap. No engineering drawing? That costs extra too.Or maybe it's time to start being realistic and buy a normal set of truss head screws and clip nuts like everyone is already saying.I would go with a riv-nut. Once they're in, correctly, they won't go anywhere. Especially in this low torque, low vibration, low use area,should last many many decades.I do not know the availability of those riv-nuts though.Course there is the tools and inserts you need, but once you have the tool, I'm sure there will be many places that need riv-nuts.I've bought riv-nuts and a gun on Amazon.Rivnut or clip nut. Imo what should be used on this type of enclosure anyway.Just tap if for a 1/4-20 and call it a dayTry rivet nutJust tap new thread for a bigger bolt or use the threaded clips. SolvedMod them all?nut-serts?Can you use a Sheetrock anchor that’s got a large flange on it, and superglue it to the panel.Or as others said, a panel clip like you find in your car. This is likely the best solutiontake a thicker piece of plastic, drill a hole a bit smaller than the bolt, heat up the bolt and screw it into the plastic. do this a couple times to form the threads. then glue that piece in place.if it really has to be steel you might be able to use such a screw as an impromptu tap/thread former. cut a slit into it so it gets a cutting edge in screw in direction and try to drive it through a piece of sheet metal. might ruin a few screws but you will get your oddly specific 3 start threadDid you make a back up? If not, you'll probably be buying one from the machine tool manufacturer.No we got the machine used and it was our fault for not backing it upAh. Contact the manufacturer and ask real nice if they can send a back up.Unless the hard drive die(which I’ve had had happen). Look in the backups folder and see if you’ve got an archive you can use?If it's anything like the Siemens 840c then I feel your pain. It's the only Siemens I've run bit it is hands down the worse control I've ever had the displeasure to have to deal with. We've actually considered retrofitting the machine tool with a completely different brand control.I run Siemens840 all day and have had not an issue, im assuming all your tool offsets are set to 0 and your touching them all off the top of the part? Or your tools are already measured before you start the job?Sparkie in a previous life. When this happened we would go to the supply house and get panel clip nuts. The panel really only has 2-3 threads so if they get messed up you really don't have much to repair. Id also advise not reusing the screw.I did start by purchase a complete, new set of the correct panel trim screws for this Siemens panel.We have a great electrical supply house based in metro OKC, I’ll specifically ask them on Monday regarding the panel “clip nuts” (what I was calling “extruded U nut”.)It’s strange that the neither parts house nor Siemens support offered anything to work with this thread. They would only say that it’s “proprietary” …most people drill, tap and replace with a standard thread.Do you know for sure whether the supply house - or anyone else will have this non-standard, “triple start” thread?As an electrician, I would:Tap out to a 1/4-20. I have those on the truck. Round head, slot & #3 PhillipsSome type of clip nut would work? Some commercial panel come with clip nuts. These panels have a much wider lip to them, usually.I don't know how thick a rivenut is. Those original screws are self threading in the panel. Install rivenut, force screw in ? Or install rivenut, tap to a 10-32, then force in the screw?(I know, I know, not Mr Ten Thousands Precise Machinist .! 🤣🤣🤣🤣)honestly, i am not sure why the electric industry does nt convert to using cage mount screws like these (https://www.amazon.com/Washers-Cabinet-Shelves-Routers-Self-Locking/dp/B0C77RFM5Q)should you be able to strip it out, its like a 30 sec job to swap with a new cage nut.I have to ask, why the fixation with triple start? Is this an antique that needs to be restored a particular way?Any single start screw and clips would work.Everyone keeps suggesting the same things he said he doesn't want to do 🤣 His reasoning is a little OCD, but maybe he treats his electrical panel like he treats his car? ShrugRivnuts, if practical, and move on with lifeYeah that's what i would do. Rivnuts are an upgrade.Drill it out and tap new threads for a larger size. Or somehow adhere a nut to the back of the steel so it still holds.You want the BEST solution that perfectly preserves the original TRIPLE START screws? Pay a machinist to make a custom insert/nut with the triple start thread. Be ready to shell out $$$$ for that triple start thread tap. No engineering drawing? That costs extra too.Or maybe it's time to start being realistic and buy a normal set of truss head screws and clip nuts like everyone is already saying.I would go with a riv-nut. Once they're in, correctly, they won't go anywhere. Especially in this low torque, low vibration, low use area,should last many many decades.I do not know the availability of those riv-nuts though.Course there is the tools and inserts you need, but once you have the tool, I'm sure there will be many places that need riv-nuts.I've bought riv-nuts and a gun on Amazon.Rivnut or clip nut. Imo what should be used on this type of enclosure anyway.Just tap if for a 1/4-20 and call it a dayTry rivet nutJust tap new thread for a bigger bolt or use the threaded clips. SolvedMod them all?nut-serts?Can you use a Sheetrock anchor that’s got a large flange on it, and superglue it to the panel.Or as others said, a panel clip like you find in your car. This is likely the best solutiontake a thicker piece of plastic, drill a hole a bit smaller than the bolt, heat up the bolt and screw it into the plastic. do this a couple times to form the threads. then glue that piece in place.if it really has to be steel you might be able to use such a screw as an impromptu tap/thread former. cut a slit into it so it gets a cutting edge in screw in direction and try to drive it through a piece of sheet metal. might ruin a few screws but you will get your oddly specific 3 start threadFigured it out, the G54 was somehow not activatedDid you make a back up? If not, you'll probably be buying one from the machine tool manufacturer.No we got the machine used and it was our fault for not backing it upAh. Contact the manufacturer and ask real nice if they can send a back up.Unless the hard drive die(which I’ve had had happen). Look in the backups folder and see if you’ve got an archive you can use?If it's anything like the Siemens 840c then I feel your pain. It's the only Siemens I've run bit it is hands down the worse control I've ever had the displeasure to have to deal with. We've actually considered retrofitting the machine tool with a completely different brand control.H codes are used differently depending on machine tool manufacturers. Siemens 840D has too many variables for that little bit of code. Can you provide more information?Don't h codes generally indicate a height offset? In this case, isn't the code suggesting that the height offset for one tool is equal to that of the other? It could be that one tool is used for 2 operations that have different definitions of what that tool is in the program. We used a chamering tool to do engraving in my 4th year final, but only had slots in the machine for 8 tools, so used the same offset, same tool, just gave it different definitions in mastercam so that we could program different tool pathsIt was a rough bore op and then another in the finish bore op. It is Sinumerik 840d. I’m only asking because I’ve not seen it before on similar parts. Different programmers have different quirks where I work.On DMG MORI CTX TC Machines H74=75 is B1-Axis Clamp an H74=76 B1-Axis UnclampIt has nothing to do with tool offsets. Sinumerik uses D value for that.H codes are functions like M codes that transfer informations to PLC and can have adjustable values. Manufacturer specify H codes and what they do. If it's DMG, it should be in machine manual what each code does.Do you have any hydraulic/pressurised air workholding mounting system on your machine? My DMG mill manual says that H74 is for locking/unlocking mounting system and value means how much it is delayed. I belive it may be 0,74s delay.Not sure why you’re getting downvotes for being right lol. This is the correct answer, by the way. Source: I work for DMG MORI, specifically on machines with Siemens controls. Edit: correct about the use of an H code. The actual use may be different.I see H, I think of C axis, like spindle rotation increments, but I'm surprised to see so many other different uses for HT5 M6S2000 M3G43 H5 D5Height offset for Haas.h is height for 3 axis. i assume thats a macro for offsetting a tool. if i were you id find out wh(at)(y) feature that created but the rest of the code is fucking wonky too. send the full program and ill tell you what the part looks like and why they added a second tool offset.Not to be obtuse, whats the N lines for? I see every line start with N and the digits climb by 10. I use the H code for tool height call in the off-set page. Tool 1 oal height =2.5 inches off the head, soT1 H1 + 1. This allows me to "step over" and arbitrary Zero touch off.The N is just line numbers in the program.I run Siemens840 all day and have had not an issue, im assuming all your tool offsets are set to 0 and your touching them all off the top of the part? Or your tools are already measured before you start the job?*Korean poopoo.Love it, i use a puma 5100lm its so great.Mazak and Mazatrol are hands down the easiest CNC and programming software I’ve ever used. We have 3 Haas machines in our shop and they were pretty intimidating at first, but I’m slowly learning the ways of G&M coding. I’ve heard of Doosan but never actually operated one.I run a doosan DNM 5700 and it's really quite easy to use once you get used to the fanuc control.at least its not a haas or a shenyangI ran a Doosan Vt900 for a couple years. Not a bad machine- capto tooling, plenty of power, standard Fanuc control but very slow turret indexing. It also had a tendency to alarm out when the rapids were at 100%, even after the spindle was warmed-up. But it’s a 1/2 step up from some of the Taiwanese machines I’ve run.The shop I’m at is switching mostly to doosans. I’m running 2600s and 4100s daily. We use strictly use CAM here though. No conversational. After learning the control I actually prefer them to the mazaks we have.Doosan is Korean. You one of those Mazafools?I would inject Mazak and Okuma into my veins. Trying to inject doosan would alarm out, not explain the alarm in full context, so I’d have to go through 3 different menus to reset back to stage 1.I am getting my G&L 48" VTL 2 channel machine retrofitted with an 840D controller. I just read through the ShopTurn and ISO programming manuals and the Operating as well. I have the PDFs on my computer at work and will send them tomorrow. PM me your contact information and I'll respond tomorrow morning.DMG is very helpful in regard to manuals, at least in my country. If they have a digital copy they mail it to you if you ask for it.Otherwise Siemens manuals are available from Siemens online. They can go pretty deep but they are available.In the controller you can use the help function to answer a lot of questions. Usually all G functions have documentation attached to them that way. M functions varyFor G code download the haas lathe and mill training manuals, they are free and have explanations and examples of G and M codes.Thanks for that. I just downloaded them and they seem exactly what I was looking forAlso wouldn't hurt to get some of the workbooks they have I think you have them on Amazon but they'll give you exercises and you could do it on hand on paper so you're not constantly referencing something online.. Off hand I don't know the name of any particular book but they surely exist I got 1 kicking around somewhereG-code is couple of dozens commands and no syntax.If someone is familiar with programming anything, learning G-code is a matter of reading a wiki page.Learning the machine, the tools and materials - that's what is trickyThe programming manual for your machine. There can be slight differences in G and M codes for each type and brand of controlYes there can be. G28 sends most machines home. On a Hanwah swiss lathe. It sends the tool dead center of the bar.That's a very unusual engineer. I'd have thought that they'd realize how seldom it is that anyone needs to write raw GCode when we have so many software tools to write it automagically for us, saving huge time and money.There are online GCode references and lookup tables, of course... usually tuned to one GCode flavor or another. GCode isn't, after all, a single perfectly standard language. Most flavors share some commonality, but there are very large differences between flavors. So... tell your mechanic to pick a machine and train up for that, but only after looking into automated GCode-producing software.It's generally only in troubleshooting that one ever needs to manually edit GCode... and seldom even then.Well, he actually only asked to learn GibbsCAM which is what is used here but speaking to our lead machinist, he recommended that he understand G-Code so he can troubleshoot the program if needed.I would say free version for Fution 360 for the learning then upgrade what you actually start machining. There are lots of help files and YouTube videos. People where I live also really like master camRun simple handwritten programs in single block with a g/m code list in hand.Haas has generic programming manuals that are excellent.depends on the machine, but you tube is where i learned a bunch........... except for an old Cincinnati cnc mill. mother fuckers gcode was no where near compatible to anything elseOthers have mentioned the actual GCode sources. I would recommend a NC code viewer like NC Viewer (web) or NC Plot (install). NC Plot v2 was also nice with a trial and license since it adjusts for work offsets like G91/92 and loops.These can help debug or give an idea what the GCode is going to make the machine do and will be nice tools well down the line.P.S. if the engineer did software programming at all and is familiar with Notepad++, it can have libraries in order to be used as a free GCode writer and act like an IDE (a programming tool to help see syntax).Thanks. Yea, this man is a programming wizard in several languages so I'll keep this in mindPeter Smid booksCNC programming handbook by peter smid.Good starting knowledge of G and M code hand programming for mill and lathe. also had a CD-rom with resources too.A machinist…Tell them to push the green button for a few weeks and watch the code go by on the screenThat's how I learned.Just get out on a mill and watch and learn. Thats how I learnedVery cool!I got to see a lathe for submarine shafts at one point. You rode (there was an actual chair) on the carriage and the chips were larger than much of our starting stock. That was before cloud storage of cell pics unfortunately.Thank you!Hahaha monster chips! Two ppl to shovel lolI loved the sound this machine made under heavy load! I’ll never forget it! 👊Cheers 🍻How long it it take to make it?This took roughly 250 hours mill and lathe 👊whatever you got paid for that it was not enough 😂That looks like a beautiful shaft, babe.🥰 lolAs a lathe guy, I'm impressed. Nice work! 😉My man! Thank you!What sort of tolerances do you have to hold on stuff this size? I only really turn up to a metre and a half and have about a 300mm section that's +0/-0.015 The rest of it is 0.05 (All metric)I use ncviewer.com it’s not the ultra best but it’s free.YouTube has quite a few tutorials about G-Code as well. Haas talks about a bunch of the more common ones and a couple macros. Titans of CNC has 2 or 3 walk through videos of long hand programming, nothing too intricate though.Aside from ncviewer, you can try the simulator from cnc cookbook. You'll get a free trial, and it supports advanced g-codes.Not g code but if you’re interested in Siemens programming the Sinutrain emulator from the Siemens website is excellentThat's good to know! My work has a couple machines with Siemens controllers, I might could work my way into a raise if I learn how to work them.I believe cinco edit shows 3d but it isn’t free.It does.NcViewer.com is free and works ok.Ya you gotta flip It into Edit mode sillyThere is an app called VMC simulator on App Store. I believe it is also available on a desktop.I didn't really try it but the reviews look decent. It is only a couple of dollars. Looks like it's something you're looking for. The lathe version is also available.I've spent the majority of my career running Haas controls with a little Fanuc here and there. We just got this machine a couple weeks ago and it has been a learning curve. After our engineer mentioned that Mazatrol ran on top of Windows 98, I knew what had to be done. Found the games folder and called the whole shop over for a good hour or two of laughter. Morale has been at rock bottom lately so it was great to see the guys get a chuckle at something again.Okay but when are you going to get it to run DOOM?Dudeous Maximus!!A decent wage always boosts my morale lmaoMoraleI trick I learned to keep the Nexus alive is to create a bootable memory stick and boot a scan disk and defrag tool. I saved several hard drives with the one I had. The games are always a hit! We would play mine sweeper during long cycle times lolI opened WordPad once and full screened it and typed FUCK YOU DAVE in 72pt font and left it for the boomer on first. He had to get the supervisor to close it because he couldn't figure out how to get back to the mazatrol app. Had a good laugh about that.Man, it always wigs me out to see Windows on a controller. We had one machine with Win98. There's nothing so confidence-inspiring as getting a BSoD on your screen. I wish these things would all run a real-time Linux distro.you shouldn't have told anyone, just sit there for most of the shift focused on the control panel, laybe sometimes blast something in the machine with air and maybe mount and unmount a setup block maybe measure something look like you're setting up or manually programmingBy the way, the guy who ported Space Cadet to windows is on youtube. Dave Plummer. He has some really interesting videos.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ThxdvEajK8g&t=21sAnd here is one where he tries to make a 1500hp twin turbo under $1500.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xc1SqRaKv1gThats exactly the same model machine that i run now. Although it has windows 95 i think. I'll try to find the games folder next week when i have time.Pangaea was the bestDamn, now I gotta see if the XP powered laser I run has it.Worked with a guy who brought in movies on a flash drive and played them on our Mazak matrix controls that run on XP. He had to install a codec pack into windows media player. It was pretty funny.How do you protect keyboard like that?Thank God this guy doesn't have long nails, but just looking at this keyboard, really really makes me scared afNails won't do anything to that keyboard. They usually last for years.Yeah, all the guys I've ever worked with had low morals too. Bunch'a fuckin scumbags.I wonder if I could do that with the mazatrol on my mazak fiber laser III 10KW laser machine?Epic pinball?OMG this is my first CNC i ever useThere are soft keys to slow rapid moves down to 5% 25% 50 and 100% 5% is painfully slowPerceived rapid speed increases as clearance decreases. We adjust all our machines so the lowest setting is 1% because we do a lot of work where you're missing stuff by .020 or less and everything is an unproven program.I hate Haas for this very reason. Who the fuck designs a control to have identical buttons for overrides that you can't intact with without looking at them? They're rookie machines made by idiots. A simple knob has been functional and useful for this purpose across all other machine tools.But adding knobs would increase the cost of the machine by like $20!And those buttons are way harder for apes to break.I actually rather like the Haas control. Then again it's what I've done all my work on since I started machining about a year and a half ago.They're rookie machines made by idiots.You're probably going to cop a lot of flack for that comment, even though it's 100% accurate.I mean you can turn on hand wheel feed control, then you can control the federate with the wheel, and if you are running in safe mode then feeds and rapids are controlled simultaneously.usually when I start a program, I turn feedrate to 0 and rapids to 5 and watch the distance to go.I do wish you could turn rapids all the way to 0 thoughStill better than a tormachUse single block when your tool first approaches the cut. Drop to 5% rapid and 10% feed overide. Veerify that code makes sense and turn off single block. Now that single block is off, cycle start and engage with the work - if you like it bump the feed back up.It would definitely be nice to have a feedrate override knob but this method doesn't take more than a minute. Typically I only check the first tool unless I'm using tools that don't live in the machine permanently.Not a Haas guy but the feedrate knob on one of my Doosans at work is scrambled, 0% and 100% are correct but everything in between is random numbers so to go from 0 to 100 you have to pass through speeds up to 180%. My workaround for that machine has been to just use single-block and read each line of my program as it comes up that way I know it isn't doing anything crazy. Of course, if you don't know G-code well enough to read it that could still be problematic.Never had to run a haas but I'd find that annoyingNah, the only thing annoying about running a haas is that they’re so simple and shoddily assembled that the machine shop owners expect the minimum wage earning operators to fix them /maintain themWhile the shop owners from an okuma definitely don’t want minimum wagies in their turning wrenchesHaas has feed rate override knobs, it’s above or below the rapid override knobs,Personally I would just edit the GCode if I want a slower feed rate, fuck relying on the machine controllerJust throw in a bunch of M01s and run opt stop and use distance to go as a crutch. Just line by line that gcode, read it before you let that opt stop go you should know exactly what that code is saying before you let it do itLol what?! You put M01's on every line of code? Do you know what single block is? I have to be misunderstanding you.You can't beat a knob, I'll give you that, but the HAAS control allows you to temporarily use your jog handle as a manual 0-999% feed/RPM override (more on that here), on top of that, you can take advantage of their "Dry Run mode" or the new "Safe Run mode" with specifically designed features meant for program testing. I can think of multiple reasons not to buy a HAAS machine, but the control's definitely not one of them. It's packed with useful stuff that most people ignore; make sure you take a look at HAAS' YouTube channel and you'll see for yourself. Over the years I think I've had more problems with FANUC and HEIDENHAIN controls, but I guess I've just been unlucky.That's pretty nifty. We have some grinders with fagor on em. Not a terrible control but far from great. 20k spindle would make this a useful little machine.We have two lathes made in Soviet Russia that were converted from original magnetic tape (like the one in radios) to Fagor control.had a few lathes with Fagor controls. awkward to learn their ways to code but it generally works ok. not as easy as Mits or Fanuc to manually type in the program but it eventually gets it done.That will fit on my workbench!😍get rid of the old control and fit a new one. my company does these retrofits.What brand of controller do you replace those with?I absolutely love Fagor controllers. You're in for a treat if everything is working.I spent few years on a fagor mill. I guess it's alright for simple stuff but anything even a little complex was so awkward to program... I honestly had a bad time.Fagor controls are straight forward and easy enough. That's an awesome machine if it's working. Best for prototyping, you'd need something more brutal for production. Welcome to the rabbit hole of cnc randomness...My intent is to use it for my own personal needs/hobby. It doesn't take much space and the 5 axis is surely interesting. I even got a small Italian CNC lathe with it!We had a problem with fagor lathe. Where it wouldn't see any usb that is larger than 4gb and if the file names are not 6 numbers it wouldn't detect anything. Nobody had a post for it as it was only used for conversational programmingsounds like a quirk of fat32 partition schemeGot some time to look at the machine today... Battery is dead so all params went back to default... Gotta do my homework now! Controller is a Fagor 8050M.Anyway, the machine has rotary encoders on both U & W axis (rotary). X, Y & Z are linear scales. Any reason to use scales vs rotary encoders?Fagor!!??? 🫨Yeah Fagor 8050MSolidworks and MastercamDesigners use solidworks.I use Gibbs cadcam for my own design stuff and Cam work. It's OK, support in the UK is not great as all problems have to go to America then back to techcad in the UK, then back to us. So it can take 24 hrs to get a result some times.Overall, its a simple to use system, particularly good at 2D stuff contours, not the best on 3d scanning work.Having used Hypermill for several years at my old place I can say that is by far the superior cadcam package on the market. It's 3D machining stuff is supurb.I don’t use it myself, office people are the only ones trusted with programming etc…But I’m sure we use solidworks. I’ve seen Fusion 360 a couple of times here, but I think we only use that for demonstrating designs etc(Yes my work makes things harder by having multiple ways to do the same thing…)Solidworks and a built in addon SolidCAM or NX from Siemens.Fusion 360 for all love it just does what necessaryI hate Fusion 360 but it comes out on top in price-performance every time.But the last time I did a trial, I was happy on SolidEdge and Esprit. (See prior comment about price-performance.)Solidworks and hsmworksNice Software chain. Which type of parts do you machine and what types of machines do you have?Autodesk Inventor for CAD and Esprit for CAMNice combination. Does it work ok?Fusion 360 and gibbscam (2007 a little outdated)SOLIDWORKS for design and Camworks for programming. Looking at upgrading to Catia or NX soon for our production parts to have an all in one design/program package.We have Creo and Solidworks for CAD and Mastercam and Gibbs CAM for, well, CAM. Depends on what division.At home, I was using Fusion 360 for both until the changes last year, then got a license for Solidworks through EAA. Now that's going away, effectively, so I'm probably going to be back on Fusion when I need it and just dealing with the limitations.Mastercam every workday for about 5 years. GibbsCAM before that and before that Surfcam. As far as I can tell Surfcam isn’t around anymore.The company I work for must have 30+ seats of Mastercam. There’s fancier software out there but it works for what we keep in house.The more complicated parts get sent out of state. Those companies are using some programming software and verifying their programs and setups with Vericut.I could have IT install SolidWorks on my work computer but I see no need for what i’m doing.Guess I need to change my name to mori guy. This is our second dmu50 with automation. We are waiting on the 40 pallet ph cell to show up on this guy. Main machine landed todayNice machine buddy. Repost when you get the 40 pallet pool system.May i ask why didnt you go with a matsuura instead.Is the price range much different?My work has one of these! It feels like it is from the future.Those are nice!I love dmg. We have a 635 and a 835. Great machines.I'm looking forward to getting into some 5 axis machining soon. We have a second hand machine on the water right now. So not longI see you opted for the control with a physical keyboard, wise move haha*Cry’s in CYCLE800Nice! Have you had much experience with Siemens? I’ve always been Heidenhain.I love DMGs we’ve got a 2 CMX50s, 1 CMX70 and we’ve got Duoblock 100 FD coming later this year.That thing looks like a spaceshipThese new ones look like Space Age machines.Wow, your spoilt. It’s even got the spinny window thing, I use doosans and I’m pretty much machining blind all the timeSeems like a great way to make some really expensive mistakesHope you get better service from them than we did.....Nice machine! We have the CMX50 and are happy with it. The spinning window is an option I didn’t know existed.Sexy beasthttps://imgur.com/gallery/rBw5Jry this is the other one from 2 years ago. So far been bulletproofThose are great machines, we have a dmu75 that kills it. I don’t run it but I see what it produces and it’s always been reliable.always wondered if you get like some goodies with a machine like this? some dmg candy or sth like that? :DWe got a hat that’s lit af lit af hatThe best explanation I ever read was, If you need the arc to be true, use IJK.If you need the endpoints to be true, use R. Because it fits the arc to the endpoints.Got that from a Acramatic programming book.In my experience R is great for lathe work. On a mill though I will always use IJKI use R when the a corner needs and R, no idea how to calculate what need for IJK. Siemens controller has an option for contour turning, so i just write in that cycle.I'm an Okuma guy, so I imagine even this is a lot different for me, but I use R any time I'm not milling a full circle, then I use I,J.By what I've learned so far it also depends on what controller you are using. Heidenhain Controls as example use so called C (Curve) Commands to program radii while Siemens Sinumeric Controllers use the IJK System.Roughed and finished on a DMG 75 monoblockLooks like a section of runner for a mold. Nice fixture! It's going to be fun for the fitters to blue that.Should be able to fit the majority of that in the mill wouldn't be too bad.Very nice, what material is that?Steel, 1.2343ESUThe look very pretty. But are they in spec? :PCAM?Yes, Siemens NX12Did you cut them out of a block and then wire EDM them off? That's how I've done stuff like this beforeYes that’s right, one side is EDM wired and the other sides are milledPost up the salary if you want some attention. Talk is cheap.Also, where is the plant?That's two different jobs.Is it near duisburg?As a guy that has been a production machinist, and a tooling salesman, one thing I find as a constant. A clean shop is a successful shop, if you are keeping things clean and organized on the floor, there is no reason to doubt that philosophy is not consistent from bottom to top. Good utilization of time, space, capitol investments, lead me to believe you are thorough in all aspects. First impressions are huge, if I had a project or a piece of equipment to sell and walked into this shop, I would be confident I made a good choice. Many will say otherwise, and maybe this shot is a one off. I have been around enough to know pride and professionalism and wish you all the best and continued success.Very cool. My wife and I are starting our shop right now and this is great to see.A see a fancy controller back there, what machine is that?Awesome, it looks like you've gotten yourself nicely set up.How does one even go about starting something up? I've been a machinist or 10 years now, I'm 30 and want to take the leap but I'm so nervous.This is awesome.What errors are you having with threadmilling? I thought it was really easy to use.*any Siemens productEvery cad software has it's flawsNot everyone is cut out to be a machinist.Ya attitudes are a huge factor. I'll train a person for ages if they are making an effort and have a good attitude. It sounds like they are bringing down morale which makes everyone's job harder.You are pretty much describing the point where you say: fuck it, this dude is not worth an effort.If I see an effort to learn from apprentice I will explain/show things as many times as needed.If attitude is shit and he does not care why waste your time?If he is not grasping the basics, then you need to start back with the basics. Continue to stress the basics until it clicks with him, and then you can move on to the next subject. If he can not read a print and check OD/ID, then why do you even have him in front of a machine? While there is certainly more going on than what you shared with reddit, it sounds like he is getting pushed faster than he should be.Here are a few tips I use when teaching someone:Always be consistent and use simple words/terminology. Start with a simple vocabulary and have the student "use" the words by having them perform an action(ex. Tramming a vice or tool)Do not expect them to understand the first time you explain something. The student has to reach their own conclusion before they understand a concept or an action. This is really where patience comes into play because it is going to be frustrating when the student is not seeing what is in front of them. DO NOT UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES LET THE STUDENT SEE YOUR FRUSTRATION.Do not move on from a subject until the student demonstrates they understand the subject. Once they understand what they are doing, reinforce what they learned by presenting them a problem that is solved by using the subject. Help to build their confidence in their learning.Always refer back to the basics when you reach milestones with the student. It will reinforce what they learned before and help them keep a consistent process flow. It will help them with learning new things in the future, and it is a good test to see if they understand what you are teaching.When you feel the student has sufficient knowledge/understanding, test them and allow them to fail if needed. If they fail, walk them through the process from the very beginning.Remember, you are a part of the process. Provide honest feedback without personal judgment. We all learned at one point, and usually, they will not learn the same way you did. If a student feels like you are not invested in them, they will not ask questions or seek honest feedback from you. Patience, patience, patience.you have a manager in the making, of courseI'm an apprentice who was pretty hard to teach and took his time to learn. I never machined before but I think I showed a ton of effort and interest. My teacher made me feel stupid for most of the time and I was extremely stressed when working. But then whenever he or someone else praised me for my work, interest, effort etc. I learned way more things and way more easily. Now even my boss told me that it was pretty hard with me in the beginning but now they're happy that I'm there and even my teacher told me he knows that I'll be better than other more experienced machinnists there.Maybe try praising him for every little success he makes. If he asks questions praise him for it. If that's even possible of course. Maybe he's just straight up stupid and has no interest in machining either.Effort and good attitude. If they listen and actively work to correct things you have corrected them on/taught them to do a certain way, and there is improvement. Not repeating the same mistakes again and again, learning from previous mistakes. That is something you can build from. My area Machinist is a one year college course, and another year for CNC. It is extremely rare here to walk in off the street and become a Machinist due to so much training.You get what you pay for regarding multiaxis CAM.Fusion 360 is about as intuitive and easy to use for multiaxis work as you could imagine, but it lacks a lot of the power of top-dollar CAM packages. It is also not ITAR compliant.We use Siemens NX. It is extremely powerful, but the learning curve is a little steep. Once set up in NX, it is a fantastic CAM package... Highly recommended if you can talk the boss into the pricing.Esprit but its not for everyone.Siemens NX. It's about 24k a year for subscription for two licenses.Mastercam. Yeah, everyone hates the 800lbs gorilla in the room of CNC programming but it works well if you use it right. Main thing is you need to get trained on it if you want it to work well. Maybe buy an add on here and there…Fusion 360 and NX have their place too.TBH all CAM programs and toolpaths do the exact same thing but their user interfaces, support available , and prices differ. Thats it.Using Fusion 360 for 4 axis milling. If we ever get a 5 axis mill I’ll probably still be using Fusion 360 for that.Using fusion extensively for high end 5 axis work on really nice machines. I haven’t found a part it couldn’t handle yet. It has full machine simulation now for mills and that works quite well.Turning still needs work, but I know a number of people running integrexes and similar with it. For that you probably want to talk to a fusion reseller and get their custom post and workflows.I run gibbscam on an integrex i-100hst. They did a great job on the post and continue to make changes as needed.Hypermill for DMU50 & UMC750Esprit here.Have programmed Integrex (slant bed), Mori NT/NTX, Index R300. Also did a lot of post writing, but as I understand it now if you buy a post from them it's locked and they're the only ones who can edit it. I have our posts dialed in to where we don't make any hand edits to programs.Same issue with Mastercam and post processors. Our reseller outsources custom post-processors and getting support to fix them is painful.They do this for commercial work as well they test the slump (how wet the mud is), temp and air content.I was just in a shop installing a large Parpas XS and they basically dug a 12 x 14 x 10’ deep swimming pool and filled it with concrete with cooling lines in the concrete so they can thermally condition it once the machine is installed. Crazy - and they have actually installed 3 of them.Actually, concrete samples are taken for every civil and most commercial pours.Source: I did soil and concrete inspections long ago.They take those cylinders and put them in a press and break them and it needs to hit a certain psi depending on the design if they don’t they will come and take cores to test and depending on that the pad could get ripped out and someone is getting fired lolEdit: I once watch the tester put in a piece of rebar that he asked me for not knowing what his plan was and when I asked him why he did that he said fuck the guy who runs the pressthe company I used to install machines for required this. they got sued before I joined. Their guess was the customer went the cheapest route possible for foundations and then bitch about the machine vibrating. After they found that the concrete was subpar and allowed the anchors to move ever so slightly.The company I used to work at bought an infinity table boring mill. Had the hole dug out, pillar supports driven to bedrock, rebar installed, concrete poured. Did a sample post pour of the pit that was made and it came back bad. Whole thing had to be jack hammered out and redone.EDIT: my own English. Geez…You should see the machine they use to test 'em. I've smashed sooooo many of these things.I do they same with epoxy when building golf clubs.I do this with my home brew.https://ncviewer.com/Sinutrain. Free siemens sim.If you already have solidworks or inventor, hsmworks CAM has a free student license that is really goodCAMotics, it's free.As a 22 year old, you going to be happy to know that the website is even better than the bookThe library is growing. Today is a good dayLove citizens. They're the HAAS interface of the Swiss world. So easy to use. Get some experience on fanuc interface machines if you can though.Citizen programming is so so so weird compared to everything else.UPS delivery to Switzerland must be horrendously expensivethey have almost everything an person could use...Unfortunately they don't ship to Australia....But i use them for step files/solid models of parts.What is McMaster?Good luck, our 200fd and ctx have a bunch that are not the same. Best bet is find the disk of pdfs that came with the machine, or call dmg and ask for the manuals for that serial #. The Siemens Manuals are pretty easy to find with a Google search (if it is Siemens).Is it already home? I know for my Mazaks you have to move it off home first to home it.Siemens or heidenhain control?Are X, Y, and Z already referenced? It will show the little target symbol next to the axis on the reference return menu. On our DMU75, only the C axis actually has to move after a boot up.You also don't have to do anything special when you shut it off. It doesn't care where you park it, or if the E stop has been hit.After referencing, either it runs, or it doesn't. The machine has scales, so it's not like it needs to go hit a limit switch in order to find home on the axis.Just curious, is it assembled by Gildemeister?I just got home, so I can't look it up until tonight, but have you checked the manuals that are loaded in the control? They're usually pretty good at laying out what's on each page and if you use the electronic manual on the control you can search instead of having to thumb through the books.a german not using siemens?I’ll see if I can look it up tmrw, we use group #s in our programming, but they are all in the tool list right after the pocket #. As for the wkz. Ident, that is just a place for extra description of the tool or whatever you want to write in there. For example if it’s a .5 in end mill, I’ll write “.5 in-4 flute rougher” or something like that in there.Smoking cigarettes helped me at 1st with dealing with stress (wouldn't recommend)Going to the gym after work off the frustration (I do recommend it if you have the time)Now, I just don't care. I've seen people with a lot more experience then me fuck up a hell of a lot more then me and also seen others work slower (I've only been doing this for 7 years now). They'd keep their jobs with no real repercussions. Shit happens that's life, no one is perfect.Also work to live, don't live to work. Once you punch out focus on self improvement or at least doing something you love like hobbies.When I was new I wasted time not writing stuff down. Now when I fuck up, or the machine doesn’t act like it should, or setting up a part takes longer than it should, I write that stuff down and how I dealt with the issue. Whatever it is writing makes me download it to long term memory storage. Still keep the notebooks obviously to look at.Sometimes you have to make mistakes to learn. Just don’t repeat them. I’ve been machining for 18 years and I still single block and slow down the rapids for the first off. Never assume a fixture, vice or chuck is clocked up or that all the tools your using are sized properly or that their lengths are correct. Measuring equipment is your friend and you can check sizes as your going (safely of course, stop the spindle, TPC mode or equivalent etc). You wanna size a tool for a series of H7 holes? Grab a piece of scrap material (make sure it’s the same material as what your machining) and size it on that, or program the hole smaller, size it, then do the math to make it on size. As an apprentice I used to machine a lot of brass manifolds with NPT or BSP threads in em. Would just grab an off cut and tap that. If it’s too shallow or too deep east to work out the difference using the thread pitch. Just make sure you understand your program, know what you’re doing and read the screen. Position, buffer, remain.Everyone's going to make scrap parts, even the oldest guy in the shop, it's part of learning what not to do.I'm an apprentice and what I've found is no one is going to be mad at you for making a mistake if, you tell people about it and ask what could be changed or done differently.You will fuck up. Things will go wrong. Shit happens and that's guaranteed.You can't spell "experience" without "fuck!"Perfect is the enemy of good. It's always easier to look back and think of how you could have done it better.I didn't feel like I completely knew what the fuck I'm doing until about 10 years in.I still duck up after 10+ years. Mit happens. You need to find a solution if you fucked up between customer and your financial department and life will go on. Just don't repeat errors too often!Different machine, but this has happened to one of my mitsubishi-controlled machines recently. Was a stuck contactor that the safety system trips to power up hydraulics/pumps/etc. I guess it's normally wired back into the safety circuit so it can't be tripped twice without the safety circuit de-energizing - so when it was stuck on it held the safety circuit in a mode that wouldn't arm. It had the appearance of e-stop being on but no controller message indicating what's causing the e-stop.It's been a year since I've worked with one but there should be button combo to reset it. I think the over ride on right hand side of controller and the reset button. Worked on our nlx 2000 and nlx 2500.Usually it’s the contact or on the back of the estop button. Should be 4 bolts on the bottom of the control. One in each corner. Then the whole panel will lift out on a hinge. You’ll see a little square block on the back of the E-stop button. You can just pull it off. Push it back on and see if it’s fixed.Hit the cluster of dots in the very top left, go to documents, then open the instruction manual. That should show the G codes and such to turn on all the spindles. Its a modern pdf so it's searchable, and you can click on the page numbers from the index to go straight to them.To jog just hit jog mode and use the wheel like any other machine.Siemens or fanuc?Where are you located? Let me know if you still need anything.What machine and controller?This is for safety when the door is open. It can’t be overridden without disabling the safety interlock, and that’s a very bad idea as far as osha sees things.When in jog mode, do you have any sort of command line in which you can punch in a spindle speed? I'm not super familiar with fanuc as I am mostly a Siemens guy and on my machines I get to select a spindle speed and coordinate system in jog and basically allowing me to run the thing as a manual.Sounds like the doors on the machine are open when this is happening our HAAS mills won’t let the spindle start if the doors are open but if you close them then start the spindle and reopen the doors then the speed drops a ton it’s a safety thingThe "Simult. Record" button in your picture is a real-time simulation. However, your machine may not have the license to run it as it is not a standard feature. You can buy a license and put it on your control to enable the feature if you don't have it.https://www.manualslib.com/manual/1486562/Siemens-Sinumerik-840d-Sl.html?page=119I think we have the exact same machine... Why use Siemens control. I think the controls of the Index are betterI've never been able to simulate whilst machining on a Siemens mill. Not sure if there's a way around it.I dont think so, we have 6 mills with these controls, none of them can simulate while a program is runningDo you have any constraints? Financial, etc... ? It's a big market.I really like the Siemens or Heidenhain controller, which are both going to be available from most of the major players. Unfortunately that rules out Mazak (in the US) and Okuma.So I bought a Haas mini mill because I thought it would be neat. No experience. I now have two VF2's. A UMC500 on order and looking for a lathe. Waiting on permit approval from the city to double my shop space. I started less than 3 years ago. Plenty of work, but I can't see making a dime if you are trying to find a programmer to moonlight for you.You can make money but be organized. Like I said I am new but I always planned for tomorrow. Have a full QMS, ISO9001, ITAR. A full dedicated inspection room with a CMM. 100% self taught. I work from home and average 30-40k profit a month. Not the biggest, but not bad for a self taught at home shop. If I can do it, you can do it. 3 years ago I was a bank manager...Finding work is the easy part as long as YOU can make good parts and have the paperwork and everything in order to prove it.. don't make a part you can't properly inspect. Be honest with yourself and your customers and you will be fine.I'll supervise for way more than that local guy hmuIf you can program a Fanuc or Okuma, you can learn Seimens easily enough. The g and m codes are basically the same, it's the cycles and calling subs where it gets weird. Watch some videos and try some stuff, you'll be fine.Vericut, a more expensive package than say camplete, has integration with mastercam for solidworks. Where as camplete does not. So to have a smooth environment between CAM and verification I’d need to go with vericut. But it costs a lot more. And the alternative is to sacrifice the ease of having the CAD/CAM in one software which allows for ease of changes on the run to design... e.g. going with a CAM software that isn’t imbedded in the CAD software.It seems like Siemens NX is the only solid provider of a system that has parametric CAD with CAM , posting , and g-code verification in the one place...But as a company using solidworks who the fuck wants to change CAD providers!Anyone else found them self in this predicament ?? or is everyone else just balsey enough to run without “properly” verified code........I have SolidWorks and mastercam. Usually I will draw the part in SolidWorks and import the .sldprt file into mastercam and write my programs. If the part is changed after the fact I will merge the new revision of the part into the same mastercam part file and edit tool path geometry with the new part. It's not as streamlined as mc for sw but it's not the end of the world when something changed.Mastercam stand alone was a bit less glitchy for me. Also nice to run multiple instances.You're not totally fucked if there's changes but it not fun. Usually I just import the operations from the last file and just rechain the new geometry.I have both Mastercam and Solidworks, but I've never really messed with MC for SW. I also have about a bajillion hours in MC and only a fraction of that in SW.My perception of mastercam stand-alone is that you import an STL and if the design changes your fucked.Am I wrong??Kind of. Mastercam has its own CAD capabilities. Its entirely possible to do your design and modeling in MC. If that part was designed in MC making changes isn't too bad, maybe not SW efficient, but usable.If the model is imported into MC from another software, you're a little more limited but you can still make changes. .STL would be about the last thing I go with, MC supports a lot more file types that are friendlier to manipulation. You pretty much would be fucked with an .STL. If you have both MC and SW on the computer, MC can open .sldprt files and import the history, which you can then modify if needed. It doesn't always cooperate.Great for contract manufacturers but maybe abysmal for a team within a company where tweaks are constant.Might be true, I think SW probably is a little friendlier for that kind of work, but if all you had was stand alone MC you could certainly still do it.I run CAMworks w/ Volumill native plugin for Solidworks and its pretty effective, I’d say.The machine demands a blood sacrifice.The message is mostly cut off in your picture, but as a wild guess- if the machine got e-stopped, you have to hit the power button again on some machines after clearing the estop button.You need to do a blood sacrifice, it helps keep the machine tolerance. /sI apologize I mean the red oil symbol. Edit: centered up in the the photo next to the axis symbols.Apart from oil/grease level low, have had similar for low air pressure on some machines. If it's grease it could be an air lock (should be a bleeding nut under the grease unit) if it's oil check the pot for anything loose in there that could trigger the lube low switch. That's everything I've come across sorry if no help.We have a dvf5000 but it's heidenhain. I haven't touched a fanuc control in ages and don't miss it lmaoIs your way lube low?Siemens controls are good what year are we talking I've been on 2018 and up and man got to love itEvery machine has a different way of doing it, but you have to go through a recovery process. The machine treats the tool changer arm position kind of like it does an axis. If it loses track of tool changer arm height or rotation, it will not let you move any other axes as a safety measure. Some are just simple switches saying home and tool change position, others can be jogged. Usually the ones that can be jogged have a built-in recovery feature, like Haas. The ones that don't usually require you to change a value in the parameters, then index it back into place. Fanuc controls are like that, even the ones that allow you to jog. You may or may not need to remove the tool from the spindle. That may or may not require you to override any emergency alarms. There will be an alarm override function. It could be a button, or it could be in the parameters.I know this isn't a precise answer to help you with your specific machine, but I hope this helps.I bought mine from Automation Direct. I can't recall, but I think I called them for help getting the right vfd for my setup.I bought a Chinese version at eBay and after 5 years still working you should read your vfd manual before buying in order to check if it can handle your motor :)I got cheap VFDs (~$100 each) off Amazon for both my lathe and mill, and they work great.Both my machines are belt drive only, so to have an infinite control knob at my finger tips is really nice. I like to continuously vary the spindle speed up and down when parting on the lathe. Chatter never has a chance to take hold.I know a salesman the works for Mori. He used to work for Haas and would sing their praises. When he moved to Mori, he would talk about how much of a warm turd Haas was.How do they look at home gamers with clapped out Bridgeports?Working in a primarily Haas shop, I couldn't agree more. Coming from a place that ran entirely Maatsura, let me tell you, it was a shock starting there. "What do you mean the spindle is supposed to make that noise?!?! That's not a happy noise!"I have both Mori and Haas as well. While no one will argue that Mori is not the better machine, lots of shops don't need that level of machine. My Haas's are doing just fine for what we do. I'd rather the money in my pocket than ponying up for the premium cost of a Mori so I can gloat I have a Mori shop.ahem swiss machine bar loaders... Everything is covered in oil in swiss. Yet LNS and FMB are like "you get a touch screen! And you get a touch screen! Everybody gets a touch screeeeeeeeenThis sounds like a MAPPS V issue. It’s the lower panel that really sucks.The Siemens and Heidenhain both have physical keyboards, and just use the better touch screen up top.Also, Okuma has been using touchscreens with physical buttons underneath for about 20 years with no issue.On that stupid MAPPS version of the CELOS, they use that bottom membrane as a cost savings. It’s a lot easier to add and configure digital buttons than it is hard keys.My pet peeve is this:Forget about touch screens being a pain. My headache is the membrane keys on the cheaper controls like Prototrak likes to use. Give me real keys that I can feel and know I pressed.Prototrak has taught me that hard way about input lag. There is nothing worse or embarrassing when that moment happens where you hit the button to turn the spindle on and hit go and the spindle start button doesn't register, but the go button doesYou wait till it's all scratched and filthy then you will really love it!!. Its a terrible idea most factories are not clean like F1 they are sweat shops with grubby button pushersMy new haas has a touch screen and i have used it zero times.It’s funny that after they realized that touch screens were a terrible safety issue for many of the same reasons you described, the auto industry just shrugged and said “too bad”. To hear your complaint makes me think that it’s up to the marketing department and or the accountantsDepends on the model, Moris have a few different panels they could have depending on what year and what machine. They're all fairly generic controls though, if you have experience with generic Fanucs you'll be fine with basic operations.Depending on the machine MAPPS is either roughly equivalent to Mazak conversational programming or borderline useless if it's some decades old versions.Overall they're pretty solid machines in general. I've run a pretty huge variety of DMG Moris and there haven't been any I really hated, and their are a few I really loved.But it really depends on what you've got, there's a big difference between a 20 year old 2-axis and a brand new NTX mill-turn.Pretty easy imo. They run great too. Mine I’ll fire it up in the morning and it’s within tenths of where it was when I left the day before. Blows my kindI can tell you straight out whichever you get the UI will be far nicer. The Celos ones in particular are a joy to work with.  It even has all the text docs you may need like manuals in different languages or programming guides. You could also probably hide an ebook in there if you were really desperate to look busy from afar As far as spindle speed are you not programmed in sfm ? That would make the spindle speed change with the diameter being cut. G96 commands thatI have limited experience with CNC lathes from school but since that is more than everyone else I get to get it up and running. Machine is a SYIL AEX250 with a Siemens 808d controlIs it moving the correct distances?Man, some people really do wake up and choose violence.Mazak at 3000rpm : sounds like a soft breeze on a warm summers dayHaas at 3000rpm : WHAT WAS THAT JOE, YOU'VE GOTTA SPEAK UP... WHAT ABOUT YOUR ASS CRACK...? OH YEAH YOU'RE RIGHT, WE SHOULD'VE GOT THE MAZAK.Most machine tools are better than Haas, I prefer Okuma, Matsuura, and Liechte depending on what I’m working on.Mazaks are alright, certain models of makino are OK, just not the grind machines.Mazak obviously, at least they're not made out of cheese like haas 😂My opinion: Mazak = good machine overall, very nice conversationnal, can do very tight form tolerance. Haas= entry level machine, low cost, their VPN is terrible. Overall good machine for simple task with loose tolerance.For the school system, haas is a good choice. Low cost and it get the job done. For any production shop i would choose mazak. In the end, It always depend on the need.100% comes down to what you are doing. Run both love both. Each has its strengths. Haas is way easier to work on and play with. With the open M-Code relays that come stock you can customize the machine sure easily. Mazak is a fine machine if you only run Mazak. If you a jumping from one controller type to another the Mazak is so different it's hard to adapt quickly. Also the last Mazak install I had to deal with took 3 months before the machine was functional. A Haas will be up and running in less than 48hours.Mazak, unless you are going the cheapest routeDepends what your doing and for how long, haas is a cheaper priced machine, mazak conversational is light years ahead of haas last I checked. I work at a shop pt that does basic cad/cam lathe bar fed parts on 25 y/o haas and they scratch their heads at the thought of paying 2x as much for a mazak. My full time runs all mazak essentially, and almost all operators can program mazatrol at the machine. Depends what you do. That being said if Money doesn’t matter I’d say mazak…. But it always doesDon't worry about the Haas. They are basically fanuc for dummies.Mazak is different; you won't instantly figure it out without some guidance. Not complicated, but not generic like a haas.Mazaks are not very user friendly in my opinion. That being said there is no reason an experienced person couldn't mostly learn them in a couple days. Might need a couple things pointed out to them.I'm a fan of Mazak controls.Haas are super user friendly. A person could probably self teach Haas control in a day.We only have HAAS in our shop.My coworker never worked on a HAAS before when he was hired here, and even he could figure out the controller.His first few weeks he was a little slow and had to take extra time to hunt down buttons, but it didn’t take him long at all.It really shouldn’t matter.In my experience, it shouldn't matter if you show interest in wanting to learn them and following through with it. I run a 7-axis Haas and a 5-axis Mazak (both lathes) with no real training at all. The Mazak I find to be great for simple turning operations, but some of the more complex features with live tooling I end up writing out in G-Code instead.In short, I'd say it probably comes down to the shop and what they're looking for. They may have had someone quit or retire without warning and they need to fill that spot, so training may not be an option. But I'd say if they put in some patience, a well rounded machinist should be able to do figure out the basics on their own with or without a brief run-down.It was a short notice deal, guy never came back from vacation. But again it was a Haas, idk.Some signs say the guy might not have been worth working for in long run. But damn that pay would've been nice.It literally doesn't matter what machine or cam software you use. Some machines and controls are better than others and same goes for software but at the end of the day all that matters is you can make parts in tolerance.I got snubbed hard in my job search because I don't know mastercam. Oh well, I see the same place (small 3 man shop) with job postings going up every few months for almost 2 years now. They missed out on me because I didn't know mastercam and looks like it really did them well. On the other hand, I found a shop that taught me enough to be making parts in Mastercam within my first day.If you can run a calculator, you can figure out how to operate a machine. Programming, diagnostics are an entirely different can of worms, which can be wildly different based on brand.Tl:dr; brand specfic requirements are retarded. A good machinist doesn't care what fancy name is on his control. A service guy cares a little.Have you tried to contact the Manufacturer for some sort of PDF guide they can email to you? Or youtube even? I wish I could help. I found your post because I want to transport Milacron machines. Good Luck!I see why people are using it to help write their resumes.Did you ever notice that most people don’t really get when we say we make “parts”? Think about it. Who else makes parts?I'm the Michaelangelo of metal.Now ask it to tell you a macabre german fairytale about a machinist who reddits at work and dies in a workplace accident.ChatGTP left out the part about being underpaid in comparison to pretty much any other skilled trade.I tell ‘em i take a useless piece of metal and make it more useful with some manipulation.Solidworks for CAD, Mastercam for CAM.Obvious answer is mastercamAs far as I’ve seen medium to large shops use MasterCam and Larger to Fortune 500 shops use NX.Inventor CAM is very similar to Fusion 360. Since they are both Autodesk products they have almost the same features it's just that Fusion gets them sooner and has some stuff Inventor doesn'tWe switched from Fusion to Solidworks+SolidcamWorks very well, no idea why it gets so much hate here.Otherwise SiemensNX is awesome but a bit clunky, works very similarly to Solidcam but you can tell that the interface was made by engineers not UI experts.We did this before and what we did was dedicated a laptop to that project that fusion open that was not internet connected.This way we’re didn’t have to import export all the time.Can't use F360 in offline mode? I know a shop that does this, the computers its on are air gapped from any internet connection, they work on them all day every day in offline mode.Siemens nx! Has full cad/cam. Shits flawless!Tormach control quality are pissed poor, only 1 out of 20 machines were inspected back when we bought our 1100. Tormach is like a company making believe their machining are glorious until you get your hands on it and realize it's full of joke. The controller box is still inside the machine where coolant gets splashed everywhere, last week we had coolant leak that shorted the machine, we have to customized and do major maintenance every week because of bullshit like the caulk sealant that are provided by Tormach.Seeing the new 1100MX still have electrical board inside but door access from behind still gives distrust.2HP is a complete joke if you need to do low RPM with steel, those thing barely have torque at low RPM. Tormach use 60-80$USD main motor on their spîndle on their 15L slant pro and 1100 series. When we have to do electrical maintenance, their VFD controller are so-so.But then Tormach contract through chinese and sell them back at a huge margin, even those collet ER16/ER20 from tormach is aliexpress like quality.That being said I did not use syil machine, but review basically say they are good until you need to do maintenance, it's going to be basically remote support and you will need to troubleshoot by yourself. So if it is a major turn off, then you may consider tormach.I'd say the syil only because I've heard lots of bad shit about tormachs. If there are dealers near you or a shop that has one, see if you can have a look and feel of them in person 1st. Put a dti in the spindle and rest it on the bed or a vise and push on the head as hard as you can and see how much flex there is.I have a Tormach lathe. Don't get me wrong I have had very little issue with it for prototyping and small production runs (up to 100 pcs) but my future expansion plans do not include Tormach. This is just because they are getting a little too close price wise to more capable machines.My uncle just got a Syil x7 after owning a Tormach for a while. Here's a video he did comparing them and will be doing more later https://youtu.be/Jx1M0L5e-wIIf you like replacing spindles grab a TormachGiven all three day good benefits and very little else. Some information on those would be helpful in drawing people's interestFCT = F-ing coolant trigger, according to DMG tech loreCustom Hard Button > Picture of Person soft button > Picture of coolant wash gun soft button > arrow soft button next to activateIf newer DMU with SiemensWhich generation?On mine, you have to unlock the door, then open it (pull the door key if you've disconnected the two), then push the FCT button by the spindle adjustment buttonsNever touched a DMU but so far all the machines I've worked with had a mechanical lever in the back to pressurize the wash down hoseFCT, and door has to be “open” in case your door is cheatedGoing off memory so may be wrong, but I believe you have to set the IO channel to 4 to run programs off the card with M198.Make sure the USB drive is good (ran into that problem before)Open the controller and see if there is essentially a USB extension cable going from a board to the outside of the controller. Sometimes these cables go bad over time (couldn't tell you why). If you have room try to plug the USB right into the board or purchase a new USB extension cable. You can get them on Amazon for a few bucks, just make sure it will do power and data.Depending on how old the controller is, you need to set a particular IO channel to tell the control that you want to use a USB. Doosan/DN has a video on YouTube about setting the IO channel.Make sure your subprograms are in the same folder as your main program. I had to deal with that problem a week ago.I hope this helps!I would not run programs off a USB, they tend to get corrupted and the FANUC will read the gibberish code and crash. Ask me how I know.You have to set the machine I/O to USB. I have a MAPPSIV control so it's probably different than yours so I can't really give you directions on where to do this.We used network to DNC programs for a while, before we figured out how to set up the data server in the machine correctly and just use that now.Just to make sure, you're trying to plug in a USB drive with programs on it? It might need to be formatted with an old format like FAT32.I would recommend just connecting with ethernet.On the machine, check your settings and make sure that the I/O device is set to the USB. This is under Settings and option 64 IIRC. For the USB, make sure the program you are calling with the M198 is named Onnnn and nothing else. For example, if you are calling subroutine 10 using M198 P10, the file on the USB needs to be named O0010. with leading zeros and no file extension.You might have better luck using the high memory area on the machine, if you have the option. You can get to that area by pushing DNC or TAPE and setting the I/O on Settings Option 64. HMA is more reliable than USB in general.I have two possibly silly questions.Have you tried just using M98 instead of the M198?Are you sure the USB is fully engaged? I've had this issue with the Celos control a lot. The pocket where the port is located is too thin to get good contact with the port often. I had to eventually go to super slim USB drives to get around this.I thought m198 was to pull programs from a data server Also if your usb is too fast it might not work. I have "slower" usb that work fine in machines that are formatted the same as my fast ones. Fast one doesn't work on some controllers.You need to make sure your parameters 20-23 are 17Try threading from inside out, pulls chips out.No way to leave some material on the bore to final finish after thread?Rough bore Fin bore -0.1mm Thread Fin bore Spring pass threadNot sure if this is the way to go. I’d look at coolant first. Are you getting enough coolant into the bore to flush the chips. Is the bore big enough to allow the chips to evacuate. Have you tried using air and coolant (different lines) to flush the chips. I’ve don’t a modified indeed before and what I can say is anything that has you using the cutting side of your insert to slide into the cut will destroy the tool life of that insert, the standard modified infeed has shown (in all my cases) to have the least tool pressure as well.Found the horizontal boring mill guy.PUT PUTThat looks like a y- cat breed to meThat's what happens when you import stuff from SolidWorks.G19That’s the ZY planeCheck your offsets, guyIn no particular order:Toolpath transform is what you want. Select rotate. The first thing to look at is "assign new work offsets" on the lower right. You'll have to fiddle with those to get the output that you want, and then check the results to see how it creates and numbers the offsets.Next make sure that you have rotate tool plane turned on. This will actually rotate the tool vectors around your rotation axis. Otherwise the points will move, but your tool will be locked to the parent operation's t&c plane.Second make sure the offset type is set to NCI and not geometry. This saves time on large transform operations. You can also decide what operation ordering you want to do to minimize tool changes or make parts complete each time. That's up to you. You can also fart around with ghosting source operations but you need to make sure your angle spacing is set correctly on the next page.Change to the rotate tab and check "rotation plane" to be the top plane or rotary home position plane and set the x-y to be the center of the circle of parts.Set the angles for start and spacing to match your fixture.Edit: your post should be set up to home z between plane changes for this to work. Otherwise you need to fart around with clearence and home positions on each toolpath. It is doable, just more clicks.The new 50T Fryer we have in our shop w/ Siemens control leaves a lot to be desired. It’s painfully obvious that our manager went for the cheapest machine he could find. Good luck with any customer support on that thing. Hope you have good luck with yours.Small world, we used Mariano Bros for a bunch of our machinery rigging/moving.Oh man, we have an old MC-40 that I run from time to time, they are great machines.Spindle counterbalance fucked off on you?Look for a used L20, ECAS20 or 20J2. Citizen, Star and Nomura respectively. Understand that at that price it must have been ran hard. Expect issues. Check the machine out. Motor and belt issues are fairly simple fixes, but casting or metal on metal issues are not. Check alignments etc. but at the end it is still a “you get what you paid for” type of deal. These machines are pretty widely available models.Only big problem I see with the L20 is the 25mm bar stock you mentioned, other than that, as mentioned by another comment, unless you are making thousands of these a standard live tooling lathe will do everything you needAs someone who used to be a partner of a shop that ran 8 axis Swiss as well as sub/live fixed head lathes, both doing 24hr lights out, my advice to you is to get the parts quoted on Alibaba first.There is no part of a citizen machine that costs less than $500 to replace. And almost every part is necessary for the machine to function. Mostly you're in the $2k range and you could go up to maybe $10k. In your machine budget range you'll be looking at older machines and many parts will be on the verge of failure. C axis (head stock indexing) encoder dies? $5k and you may have to wait a month. X axis ball screw is $2k. Guide bushing nut is $500. Sub spindle rpm encoder was possibly unfixable because it wasn't quadrature (i forget the name of the old tech).This is for a 1995 era machine. Maybe $20k-$30k today without bar feeder. Originally $200k.Don't forget you need a bar feeder with this machine and they are themselves full of expensive parts and fancy mechanisms. Suggest stay away from cheap iemca. They're literally designed like Swiss mechanical watches she are very fussy as they get older. Lns and edge are made simply and robustly.Also figure out your metallurgy. Titanium, far as i know, can't rub against other metals. Similar to aluminum. Very mushy that way. Also titanium can burn your entire machine down if you have a cutter failure. Also most old Swiss run oil only so that can burn your machine down too. Look into the cost of fire suppression systems for lathes.Seriously, find a Chinese supplier who is responsive and willing to work with you. Sus out your product. Buy a $1k manual bench lathe to prototype. If this thing takes off, then consider insourcing. Your parts are easy, your margins are probably good, and Swiss lathes live mostly in the medical and aerospace realm for a reason (mega bucks).I'm not sure I see anything here that couldn't be done on a more standard live tooled lathe/turning center?Do you want a swiss because you have expectations of making these in the hundreds of thousands per year?Ok:.. so now this is changing to help me pick a lathe.What Haas lathe can let me:cut a gearmake a string pillar by drilling a center hole through on the x/y axisround the live tiptransfer the part to work on the back side.drill and tap the back sideThanks!@mods, please consider removing this (no pun intended) post. This is basically an unpaid ad.Unless I missed something you never said what software these are forFuck off, scammer.How do you handle the 2 different 5 axis configurations on the T2?LOLYou live in a fantasy world.For mill. Anything harder than drilling a hole or facing I'll do CAM.Lathe. No CAM unless complex. And even then it's just for generating the profile then sticking it into a template.Always CAM for mill, Always off-line (Okuma IGF) for lathe.CAM for everything. I've relied on it so much I've forgotten a lot of g code.cam. Mastercam is the easiest to learn and does almost everything. not a salesman but have been using it for over 30 years.I’ve written a lot of automation scripts for feature detection and process selection in Esprit for 3 axis and 3 + 2 cutting. Almost every part that isn’t too complex I can just run a macro or two and have it auto program from a long list of processes, making it so I can’t even keep up at the controller for basic parts.Sometimes these scripts create programs that are not as efficient as they could be, but they’re very predictable and all the processes are proven out. I can then just tweak a bit to push the efficiency as far as I need it.For advanced parts and features that my automation can’t handle (3D surfaces and simultaneous movement mostly), you wouldn’t be able to do at a controller anyways, so I just program those in CAM.The reality is, both. For high quantity turning nothing beats a hand written program. For high stakes 1offs on the mill? Nothing beats full machine simulation.Online on easy parts, offline for complex parts. Mostly 5-axis parts. I prefer offline programming. it's much easier and safer. Assuming your CAM software and post processor are well maintained.I always have a hard time learning CAM so if I have to program it will be on the controllerI just use notepad, grew up pc gaming can type at around 95 wpm one handedCam….. is on a laptop from 2002 so I use it only when neededHand writing gcode with a keyboard on a pc is bestManagment who cant manage. We currently have a shortage of work and will probably be working reduced hours, while also having jobs that are 140 days late.This is why I like repair vs production. I literally have none of these problems. And I get to play with giant power tools all day.Also, manual machines make sense for many one off parts.Overly tight tolerances, and engineers who will go to war to defend them.Working with experienced people that refuse to learn a machine. So you have to write out instructions or help via WhatsApp deep in to the evening.as a service tech,change your fucking coolant.I don't know if it fits on here but. Custom who try to provide their own material, but they don't really until the process. So they end up giving you less than what you need and make the job a lot more difficult.toolmaker here...check your run out on your over tightened er holders, your worn out chinese sidelocks with handmade flats and your shrinkfit with 9 million cycles with a blowtorch. the tools dont suck and I dont wanna rip you off by selling you more endmills than you need.FUCK drawings that are modified or lack proper information, i can't tell you how many times im on cad trying to model some shit modified drawings and 99% of the time end up smashing my mouse in.People that cannot maintain their machines, fucks me right off, I bought a 2 old scrapper haas machines for scrap value 2K, and the maintenance and service was disgraceful, I knew what I was getting into, and have rebuilt and serviced it, but people treat machines terribly, pisses me off, even the guys at work can't even treat them right..That list is not so much a dislike of machining. It seems your ire is that, as a machinist, you have to put up with a lot crap from everywhere else in the shop! (machinists do have a reputation as being arrogant fuckers though... self included)(metric here)Very tight GD&T tolerances on a 3+2 axis part in a shop that doesn't have A/C.It was 30 degrees when I got the job setup and producing good parts yesterday.This morning, I ran the program with no material for three 15 min. Cycles and then ran my first part of the day. My most critical offset was off by X0.015, Y0.060, Z0.040, enough to make the part well out of spec.I adjusted my offsets, then spent the day gradually making adjustments for until my offsets were nearly identical to the previous afternoons values.It was 20 degrees this morning. 35 when I went home.This was on a 5year old Matsuura.Definitely not Robodrill, I mean my shop would buy it but my shop does a lot of stupid stuffFor 5AX: DMG Mori, GROB, Hermle, Heller, ect. Get whatever one tickles the taint the most and fits your parts the best for the money.I’m a big monoblock fan myself. I love the celos control and the visibility and access to the tool magazine.I like AC machines with equal swivel each way.Whatever you do, make sure your 5AX has a Siemens 840D control. It is the gold standard for 5 axis milling. Mazak will even offer machines with an 840D.For Lathe: Fuck turning, get two 5AXMaybe instead of two separate machines, get a mill-turn like an NTX. I’m willing to bet the budget isn’t there for two halfway decent machines.On the live tooling lathe, do not forget the Y-axis.If you got the parts, a mill-turn would be nicer than a live tooling lathe.Matsuura MX-520 for 5 axis. I'm a Maintenance Machinist, so I service the CNCs and I have virturally no repair work orders come in on those. Or the Matsuura MAM72 series. those things run forever and repeat.Nakamura-Tome still makes a decent lathe.Okuma makes a great lathe as well.Try to stick with FANUC controllers. I may be a bit biased, but they seem to do their job quite well. A basic FANUC Maintenance class will do ya wonders in the troubleshooting arena.Completely depends on what you want them for. For lathes, Okuma, Mazak, DMG in that order. DMG makes a great lathe, for production. Set it up on a part and let her rip. If you change set ups fairly often, Okuma or Mazak.Mikron for the millTried calling an exorcist? We all have one or two of these machines 😩 Heck, one of my Swiss citizens wants to die every time it sees an M0.Read your machines programming manual.If this is a common occurrence have a S###M# after the stop. It won't hurt anything to have it in there as the program will normally just blow right past it in normal operation anyways.You could also try in MDI.And if your door is open it might not want to let you turn the spindle on for safety reasons.I don't know about Siemens controls but generally hitting cycle stop will stop the program and you have to restart it from the beginning.Try feed hold, stop spindle, jog, do your thing, and then cycle start again?Some machines you need to be in 0% spindle override on the knob before you hit the clockwise button againWhat is it?LOVE FactoryFix. We are a small Aerospace Machine shop and since June 2024 this awesome platform has helped us fill very difficult positions. We use them to fill all our openings including Machinists, Manufacturing Engineers, Deliver Drivers, Facilities Technicians and Manual machining positions.There are many enterprises using FactoryFix for hiring industrial staff. It's definitely worth toApplied directly to Siemens & then I received a text from someone named Binta from Factory Fix. Did it end up being legit?FactoryFix employee here!100% legit, employers can post their jobs on our platform and then engage with workers who apply.Good place to find a job for skilled trade/manufacturing and good place to post for manufacturing recruitersShop I work in uses almost exclusively CAM for programming 'cause when you standardize tooling and use CAM there's little to no chance on crashing In regards of those two CAM programs I can't tell you anything since we're using SolidCamHypermill I think will be your best option. 5 axis toolpaths are an absolute breeze in hypermill. I've also used powermill for years but I would go with hypermill for efficiency.I run fusion 360 on all kinds of mazaks. It sounds like what you need. Approachable, easy to learn, inexpensive, and upgradeable. If you want 5 axis simultaneous, you can get the licence for a single day for a few dollars. 5 axis positional is included in the base package. A downside is that it's cloud based, so if you have defense parts etc, it won't work.We have 3 axis mills and a cnc lathe in a startup. We get by with fusion 360. I have heard good things about esprit.Are you using a presetter to set tools? If not I'd look into a Zoller. They have a great TMS, and their software interfaces with most common CAM systems.If you're programming in mazatrol I wouldn't look at packages like esprit or hypermill. Yes they are nice but they cost a fortune and sound like massive overkill for what you are doing. I would suggest looking at fusion, $500 a year for a seat.I'd say go for Espirit or hypermill. I have visi at work and use it alongside WorkNC. Visi is just a cad software with the most basic CAM package out there, and it is super clunky and not worth the head ache. Mastercam and solidworks/camworks have good offerings for what you're looking for but cost just as much as what you had mentioned. If the owner intends to grow the shop more and its capabilities, getting either hypermill/espirit may be the way to go.Siemens Nx is so under the radar!! It's magically!They are different, but bulletproof machines. It takes a little while to get used to some of their codes, but there's nothing unintuitive. It all makes sense once you read slow.It was 15-16 years ago, so I'm afraid I don't recall the model that I worked on, suffice to say it was a smallish (maybe VF2 sized at the largest) mill, and it was a thing of beauty. It was my favourite machine that I've worked. The controls were logical & intuitive, and in our climate-controlled shop, it would hold a half-thou all day long as long as I programmed tool wear in. It never felt like I was chasing the limits as I do with Haas.I have an M560V.Good spindle. Great iron.Ergonomics leave something to be desired. The chip evacuation is atrocious.I like the controller more than a vanilla FANUC, or a HAAS, but I definitely think the OSP 300 is the worst part about Okumas. It feels like a 25 year old platform.Also Okuma parts are comically expensive. Like I am consistently surprised that replacements on this thing cost more than our German and Swiss machines. The Y axis way covers get crap caught in them and damage themselves constantly, and replacements are over 6k!If I was in the market for another VMC, I would seriously consider a Taiwanese or Korean machine with a Siemens controller. I would be ready to sacrifice some raw performance for some quality of life improvements.Working for Okuma I can tell you they are Rock solid. But you do need tool breakage, additional high pressure coolant and a different chip conveyor to get the most of it. But that’s what our customers in Europe usually buy.I agree that OSP P300 is a bit harder for single parts versus Mazatrol. But if you master it you can do a lot more with it.Just clean your chips regularly and don’t worry about buying replacement parts.I own a machine shop, and I do a lot of research before I spend this kind of money. Short answer: Buy the Okuma, it’s a great machine. Longer answer: I started the shop with what I had experience with, and what I could afford; Fanuc control and Taiwanese/Korean machines. As I grew and could afford better things, and NEEDED reliability, which the other machines didn’t have (we run 17 hours/day 6 days a week) I got myself a Robodrill and a Matsuura. Both, great machines. Robodrill never breaks, but very limited with the BT30 spindle. Matsuura is great, especially with the 20K spindle, but even though I never had an issue with it, many other shop owners told me they had spindle issues with it. We didn’t, but we only run aluminum and never over 19K. A couple of years ago I needed to expand and needed a bigger machine to match my unreliable CAT50 Hwacheon and CAT40 Quasers so I looked at Mori, Matsuura and Okuma. Looked at everything. The Mori has very tiny ways, looks very flimsy, talked to a few shop owners that have them and agreed. The Matsuura was my favorite, but after talking to a shop owner that started getting Okumas after bad luck with his Matsuuras, I gave it a serious 2nd look. My deciding factor was the dealer gave me a 5-year warranty, and the Matsuura one wouldn’t go over 2, even for more money, which in my mind meant they don’t even see it as bulletproof as the Okuma guys. I went for the Okumas, a CAT50 660 and a CAT40 560. They are amazing, only issue with them is chip evacuation if you run aluminum (we don’t, 17-4 and 4140 all day, we leave the aluminum for the Matsuura, etc.). Also, I wish they had an option to get a bigger tool magazine, we have pallet changers on both and run different parts on each pallet and we are restricted by the # of tools). Yesterday I placed an order for 2 more 560s :)Okumas are great machines. I've touched them all. The only thing I wish they did was have thier lathe and mill group share code.We have like 9 of the genos 4 axis machines, just got two new ones, I run lathes so I’ve never ran one but we almost bought a spaceturn for the lathe department.Everyone of the mill guys loves them, super accurate and fairly quiet machinesThose codes remain active until they're cancelled, so it's a good habit to cancel them as soon as they're no longer needed in the program. Also why it's a good idea to start all programs with a safety line that cancels cutter comp/TLO, because those could still be active in the controller from a previous machining operationin case the last program left an offset in. say you program something without an offset (say you're just using one endmill, no toolchange) and you use, say, g97 to zero off the part with your single tool, assuming the machine will just operate off that. now, if the machine thinks there's still a different offset in there, suddenly the spindle (and subsequently your tool) is running, say, 5 inches deeper than it should be. it's a good habit and a real solid method to cover ur assSome machines can’t go home with the tool length comp on. As the machine thinks it needs to go the extra tool length plus. Fanuc robodrills do this(not sure if they still do I have older controls).It’s for safety, and should be before every tool in case you need to start the program somewhere in the middle.I only see it telling tool comp for lengthHeidenhain makes all of this obsolete. All hail Heidenhain!Review your modal g codes vs non modal.Muy importante.Have fun and make moneyActivates the bidetCounterbore Undo.door unlock on our 5 axis hadenaimI love buttons with vague images with no textIt's the door lock / unlock on our DMU 50I think that brings up the X-WingLooks like a door unlock to meThat undongles the quantum fremulons allowing the feedizites and speedquazons to move more efficiently. Really elementary stuff.Puts the gear in neutral.Lowest wear & lowest cycle time.You'll find that shortest tool path is often slower because you'll end up taking huge cuts and they'll need to go slowLearn a bit about machining before writing software for it, or you'll be doomed to be a proverbial "young engineer who looks great on paper, but can't turn the machine on".Maybe look into modern CAM software. If think you'll be hard-pressed to do better than that, especially without a machining backgroundI don’t think you should do this without some more constraints and material science and machining education. Maybe look into a specific operation that may need to be optimized, like large depth slotting. Otherwise you’ll be trying to optimize to many things with a high number of variables.A lot of the optimization will always have to come from a skilled hand. There is still a bit of an art to the trade, if you really want to get into it the first step would probably be to at least take a cnc course.https://cgtech.com/It would behoove you to look at Fusion 360 as well. Their "Adaptive Toolpath" feature is second to none.Volumill has been the best high-speed machining software I've ever used, hands down.I worked at one shop that had a WFL, and yeah, it was a very capable machine. The only thing it could do that our Okumas and Moris couldn't was eccentric turning, for things like crankshafts, which was pretty cool to watch but ultimately not very useful for us as we only did one or two parts where that was needed. Whether it's worth the cost or not is something that your company would have to decide, it might be a great investment or you might be able to do the same work for half the cost, depending on what your parts are like.Ran one for about a year. Good machine, holds tight tolerance. Only downfall, I don't care for Siemens controllers. Not to mention, crash guard can be a bit buggy at times.20years ago? Absolute alien technology, nothing could do what they can do.Now? A well specced integrex will get you 95% of the way there. They're insane tech, but not for mortals.Nowadays it’s basically the insane level of customisation they can offer. They can build anything you want as long as you can pay for it.If your production is mostly small batches you are better off with something like higher end DMG or comparable machine. If you are making same part 24/7 for next 5 year WFL will have an edge because machine will be tailored to make that specific part.Good machines when they’re running good. Have had some issues with ours. Tool changer problems. Various leaks. Had to have the spindle rebuilt. Window had to get replaced with the visiport. It was a little more customizable than the Japanese machines which is what drew us to purchase it. We got the turret on the bottom instead of the steady rest.Has anyone worked for WFL?Anyone here been to Linz Austria for training?The controller looks like it came out of a futuristic space movie.is that one of those window things that spins so you can see through coolant? deluxeOur shop got a 360 in 2018. Had to replace the spindle twice, lost alignment, produced an earthquake, the tool changer often drops tools...10/10 would buy it again for the lols factorYou have a big machine when you have 3 steps leading up to it.Looks great! What will you use it for mainly?What's the work envelope on that thing?Crikey!I went from a haas umc 750 to a y axis live tooling mori (Nl-2500).... great machine but not a 5 axis. I miss it but the benefits at the new job are to good to pass upOooh, very nice.What a beauty!We use solidworks and fusion360. Post to Mazak, DMG, Okuma, Makino, Salvagnini and Bystronic. No issues with either platform. They all have their quirks but all software is like that.I use fusion 360 on our dmu 50. But for complex simultaneous milling mastercam will probably be betterWe used esprit on oursWe have 3 DMU 50s and use Mastercam to program. All complex aerospace components.I've certainly never lost any "information" bringing in step files. We do a lot of 3D surfacing and they work very good. Not perfect but very good. Getting noise out of 3D and 5axis simultaneous toolpaths can be difficult sometimes.Mastercam for 5 axis stuff. Fusion is capable for the price but it doesn’t really compare to mastercam for simultaneous work. That said I prefer fusions workflow and for simple parts can get them done much faster in fusion.HSM works is a great solidworks plug-in for this. True 5 axis toolpaths are a bit lacking but 3+2 is great. Hell I actually prefer it over mastercam in most cases.Gibbs cam for the win!Camworks is the full feature version of solidworks cam. Pretty sure solidworks cam is only 2.5axis.I use camworks and I like it. The 5 axis strategies are pretty powerful but it can be less than intuitive to get them to do what you want. Alot of fiddling with parameters till it performs well.Most cam companies actually license the base strategies from the same supplier and the only real difference is how you interact with them. Pretty sure Mastercam, camworks, Gibbs, hsmworks all have pretty much the same strategies.That being said, Siemens NX, powermill and Esprit are probably the most powerful 5 axis Cams out there. But depending on your parts, you may not need them.Contact sales guys and get demos. You can normally get a temporary or at least demo license to try them out before you make a decision.Fusion has CAM and postprocessingFusion360. Wont break the bank and can do everything you need. $12-1300 a year is what I pay. As for Solidworks/ MasterCam... we got an email in December that MasterCam will no longer support Solidworks. So I did not renew our plan for this year after seeing that in fact does not support Solidworks any longer.I love fusion for CAM I even switched to it from mastercam. Inexpensive, real improvements with updates, fast, easy to learn. I think it's a perfect starter program, at least for someone like me in a tool room doing lots of different parts in low quantities. Don't even get me started on the incompetence of Cimquest's post department for Mastercam that was a major reason for switching.Fusion 360 has an unrivalled online community if you need help. It also has excellent CAM, and really good CAD. I personally use solidworks for CAD, but that's because I get free licences and I've always used it, and see no reason to switch. I use fusion 360 for CAM, even though i have access to free licences for any package I want. It's genuinely excellent, and, apart from swiss, I haven't run into anything that it won't do.It has free trials, built-in tutorials and hover-over illustrated descriptions for everything. Downside is pay-to-play, or SAAS, where you have to either buy a package or spend credits for advanced features, although it still ends up being cheaper than the alternatives.You have some cheap options but in the end I chose Fusion. I started out with TurboCad deluxe for drawings and used CamBam for a good bit, switched to BobCad for a small stint then landed on Fusion. It depends a lot on the type of parts you intend on making and what machine you're doing it with. All that being said CamBam did quite well during my free to cheap phase.I've used a number of things over the years. I was using Rhino for design work so I tried a CAM module for that program. Unfortunately, the maintainers ( Mechsoft) scared me off. I found a bug in their program, they fixed it, pushed a fix to their software and it broke something that was already working. That caused a crash. At that point I decided to look for something else as soon as possible - essentially run away as fast as possible.I then used OneCNC for a few years. It has some problems milling 3-d shapes. The parts came out faceted. The company acknowledged that there was a problem and could not figure out why this was happening. I stayed with them for a bit longer, however, when they could not support a large monitor, I started looking for something else.I then switched to Inventor which had a version of CAM software. At this point FUSION was very new. I did not like the user interface. I liked using Inventor to design mold assemblies and milling fixtures. But, The products I make are swoopy 3-d shapes so I still used Rhino to design the products.Inventor is a good product, however I found that it's surface modeling facilities were limited and this caused me considerable grief on a number of projects. I also wanted better tool paths that were becoming available in Fusion. So i'd use Fusion to generate the CAM. Since the tool paths were "new cutting edge" features, they didn't work consistently.I switched to Solid Edge to get better surface modeling. At the time it came with a CAM package. The price was about the same as what I was paying for Inventor. The CAM package is a version of NXCAM. That's a very nice program. However, it is complicated. I paid an exorbitant amount of money for a week of training - it was worth the money.I like Solid Edge. It meets my needs and I like using it. I also like using NXCAM. The tool paths meet my needs and the program has some nice features that make setting up jobs easier. It is, however, very expensive. The package costs about three times more than Fusion with the machining extension.I still use Rhino to develop designs. Over the years I've gotten faster with the program and can rapidly model a three dimensional object. Prismatic parts are better modeled in Solid Edge.FeatureCAM works well 3&4 axis, lathe, wire edm. Pair with SW and you’re setFor my last business I was looking for a CAD system only for HPDC tooling design without CAD. I chose Rhino3D as I had prior experience with it from reverse engineering years ago.It is a very solid CAD system (nurbs modeler). It is not a parametric system so you need an old school, organized workflow and good discipline when working but it also is very inexpensive for how very good and flexible it is. The last full license I bought was around 800 EUR a few years back. That’s not a subscription as most other software is sold now but a perpetual license.I believe there is also a CAM module made for Rhino3D but I never tried it.Rhino does offer free to use trial downloads. I recommend to give it some time and a serious look at.Fusion was never a solution for me personally as I consider it’s online dependability and it’s later introduced subscription pricing a complete no go for anything a professional shop would depend on.Is Doosan running an extra interface through Windows?Usually if the OS crashes, the actual machine side interface through the PLC will continue to run just fine. Never seen it happen on a vanilla FANUC controller, but I have seen it happen on DMG MORI Siemens/Mits/Fanuc and Mazak Mits controllers when the Windows OS hangs.DMGJust for the fact that you'll have standardized controls throughout the shop. Makes it easier to train, retain, and for programming.Get more tools and a pallet pool. Pallet pool on a haas is a 100k option but generally will pay for itself in the first year.I would get the machine with more tools and a closer spindle to pallet centerline and spindle to pallet face.Makino is a premium product, the dmg is a nice machine but makino is big time.What I have heard about makino is unless you're a big fish their service can be poor. They are the brand that sells an auto maker 30 horizontals at a time.I have also heard service techs say DMG is an acronym for "distributing more garbage"The best horizontal is the one you're most comfortable yelling at.Makino is Fanuc so I'm gonna recommend makino.My whole shop is Mori. I like that they give you a two year warranty and will stock any part you might need and deliver within 24 hours for 10 years from your machines production date. However, ever since they dropped Ellison as their sales partner in the US, their service is terrible. Anytime I have ever called Mori the first thing the guy that shows up is to call someone else because he has no idea how to fix the problem. When Ellison would show up they just got to work. I’ve been to all three Mori factory’s in Japan and they are freaking awesome. They have people in clean rooms with positive air pressure building spindles in complete sterile atmospheres, Wearing tyveck body suits and n95 masks. Iga, Chiba, and Nara are awesome factories. I know nothing about Makino. I can tell you that DMG Mori does have a huge ability standing behind it. They can build rigid machine tools.I have run that exact mori and a very similar makino. They are both top tier machines, and unless you get a lemon, you will have the exact same experience on both of them as far as the machine’s ability to make good parts quickly and repeatably.Go with whichever one fits better with the machines you already have. Like same spindle connection, or a similar control. Tooling package would play a big role for me.Edit: another thing I’ve personally noticed. As your DMGMori machines become more DMG and less Mori, the more finicky the machines tend to become. Still good machines, but they can get to be a bit cumbersome to run with the ten million sensors and safeties everywhere. My 2 centsOf the two, I would go with the Makino. Makino is a pain in the ass to deal with if you ever need their support, but in my experience, it's a more robust machine.That being said, if you're gonna spend the money you should buy an Okuma MB-4000H. Just my opinion tho.I’ll tell you what I know about Okuma. It appears that they make good machines. But their customer service is fvcking exceptional. I bought a 1960’s era OD/ID grinder at an auction for like $500 bucks. It was the whole reason I went to the auction and nobody bid on it. The auctioneer started at like $2000 and kept going down because nobody was bidding and when he got down to $500 he was going to abandon the machine so I bid. Got the machine. Contacted Okuma and asked if they had any manuals for the machine. They directed me to their rep in my area. I contacted their rep in my area. I got nothing. About two weeks later Okuma followed up to see if I got what I was looking for. I told them that I got nothing from their rep. Next day I got scans of every manual that was ever issued for my machine from their local representative. Most machine builders and third parties charge for that type of info. Okuma was on it for a machine built 50 years ago (at the time).How long is a piece of string?Edit: in all reality look at other manufacturers in your area, or within 50 miles. See what starting wages are at those other businesses, gather up evidence for an argument that you're worth more. If they don't see it and you're competent as you say you are, then look for employment elsewhere. I've learned these lean manufacturing principles really screw skilled employees over in the long run and a lot of times the only way to climb up the pay scale is to jump around jobs. I know there are quite a few good paying jobs in the states for someone of your skill set.What are your skills? Offline programming? Multi-axis work? Lathes and mills? Various materials? Have you got a track record of success in implementing lean or is it just at this company?What you get is dependant largely on where you are in the country and then how much experience you've got. In reality, lots of machine shops aren't going to care a great deal about you liasing with customers and tool reps, nor about implementing lean etc. £11 an hour for your level of experience doesn't sound too bad at all, especially not in my neck of the woods. However, I would look on Indeed.co.uk and see what others are being paid in your area and what they're wanting for that money.Id personally wait until you have finished the qualification they have put you on. In the mean time keep track of the stuff your doing and bring it up in the meeting may.Where are you ? Id say you should be getting between £13-£15 from the sounds of it. We pay our operators £10 and id barely trust some of them to press go !ShinyWho's gonna be the first to crash it?Love that line of machines. Super user friendly even modest knowledge of cnc can get a lot of work out of it.Ugh very jealous, meanwhile in my shop were using mazaks from the 90s....Best CNC machines out there imo!GorgeousWho does service for the machine in your area?What do those things go for?Depeneds on what type of parts you do.How big, price range, what kind of control do you prefer, linear or box ways.You don't need cam for a 2 axis lathe, gcode long hand is just as fast.Whether you need to add milling, y-axis or mill-turn is completely part dependent.I like doosan, okuma, nakamura, Mori with Fanuc controls but that's all I've ever used so I am kind of biased.There is no one perfect CNC lathe for every type of work... And shopping for CNC lathes requires a lot of experience IMO. Okumas are my preferred, have bought several and used dozens, very reliable and cost effective.OkumaIf you want to stay on the cheaper side i can recommend takisawa. Decent quality Taiwanese lathes.He hasn’t said a price yet but I’m guessing under 100k. We are a tool and die shop but also do a lot of work in the aerospace industry. Most of the time it’s +/- 0.0005” Most parts are step turning, maybe a precision bore or a tapped hole. Sometimes part require a flat or square to be milled that’s why I was curious about the mill turn feature. I’ve heard that Siemens controller is supposed to be awesome. Not sure what machines they are offered in. Thanks for all the input.Hows Mazatrol? I remember that being pretty good for lathes some time ago and their Quick Turns used to be decent machines, but I have not run one in a long time.No idea, never used it. But I see that new mazack are offering the Siemens controller that I was talking about. I don’t know if they still offer mazatrol or not.Did I miss the joke?We use a Romi 420 with Siemens 840D controller, the conversational programming makes it very easy to program and the simulation is very nice. I can program almost any part we make now within 5-10mins. Threading, face grooving, turning, etc.We had a similar issue a while back, it turned that the relay (G9SE-401 Omron) had failed.I guess this isn't much help, but... I had a brand new 1510 with a PLC issue that caused it to resume a paused program without restarting the spindle. This was 100% repeatable though. Your issue sounds like failed or faling hardware.Probably just because Fanucs are really popular and shops in a lot of cases try to stick to the same control just for ease of use.You can probably order them with a Seimens or Heidenhan controller too, if you that's the flavor you like.stop trying to get free free shit. easydnc.com is free for 60 days then pay for it you dipshitYou are right, they leave a helix. You'll need approval of the customer to use them. Source: Saw a Slideshow presentation by an Emuge rep.There is a video of it here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3AQOEsIktTkAnd Bob Warfield has some info on his website: https://www.cnccookbook.com/emuge-punch-taps/Steps:Plunge move180 degree spindle rotation with simultaneous half-pitch retractRetract moveIf you are interested Emuge has an applications team that can help you with your application. This type of tool path requires a machine that can precisely rotate the spindle and a custom canned cycle.The helix into and out of the hole are supposed to match up, so you'll have 2 helical grooves. You'll lose some thread engagement, but not that much. If the grooves aren't acceptable in your application, you'll need something else.There's a drill/threadmill combo out there, too. The drill is bigger than the thread mill and cuts a thread relief as the threadmill portion is doing its thing. I think that one was developed by Mazak, but I don't remember who makes the tool.We do basically all our tapping with form taps in aluminum.My Fanuc control did the opposite and slowed down. There's a setting to change it. I'm guessing somewhere in the settings you will find your answer.When you say triple the programmed rate, are you specifying the feed rate within the G02 instruction? The group 1 codes (G00, G01, G02, G03,…….) are all modal so unless you specify a feed rate ‘F’ it will use the last used feed rate for that mode.Are you using the correct cutter comp?Haas’s YouTube channel covers the basics. Sandvik’s e-learning center has free machining courses that are nice as well. Titan’s of CNC has some basics videos that are decent, you just have to fish through all the clickbait and Kennametal ads.Using the machine. Plenty of crashes to be had…If you are married with 4 kids and a wife you learn quick or go hungry.G00 G17 G90 G54 Z-30.00 Pretty easy, you're welcome 😊Preface: i dont know anything. Its possible that your draw bar isnt moving far enough to make the prox sensor that lets the machine be sure it clamped. If that only comes up when the chuck is clamped. Try moving the jaws out one tooth on the face of the chuck maybe? Assuming this is a hydraulic chuck with a drawbar. I have only ran a couple cnc lathes and a few mazaks had a moving drawbar.the first problem is probably caused by the clamping distance monitoring. press the chuck button on the control (third from the top and left) and then a screen with several values should appear. you can either retrain with a part or set the values so that the monitoring is deactivated.Edit: solved. we called the service Hotline and fixed the Problem. Nr. 1. Was i wasnt Holding the Chuck clamp foot petal long enough. Nr. 2. The guy on the phone walked us through the controlls and how to use it.If it's anything like the older sinumerik systems then it works poorly.und denk dran, angetriebene werkzeuge - zur mantel bearbeitung -maximal 114mm lang (in x). sonst crashst du gegen das blechgehäuse ;pSo that's why my surface finishes are poor. My spindle speeds are always off by .03rpm.That's ridiculous...This is what software written by a summer intern looks like ...r/softwaregoreShould of bumped act up to 2507.420 for the smoothest finish. Yea 3 decimals is weird. Being an adult child I'd try to set it to .420 or .069 lolsiemens master raceThey probably just didn’t bother rounding up the float.Coming from a guy that will spend a minute working the .0005 out of the mill DRO for +/- 1/64th bolt patterns, thankfully I haven’t encountered this.I'll bite...It sounds like you're stranded with no guidance. That's fine, but I think the lack of guidance is what's making you think you need to learn all the things about everything. Going into the PLC as a machinist is a rarity. If you have the machine manuals, and your program pops an alarm, look in the manual.One thing I've learned on our higher-end machines is that the alarm will include what sensor/system is at fault. Our machines have those numbers printed in assemblies next to the physical unit. So if it's a pallet sensor that's gone bad, there's a little diagram on the machine that shows all parts of the pallet system with that sensor's alarm code listed. Do your machines have that?The last thing is the paywall. If you're wanting to learn that much about the machine, you may have to pay for a training course through the MTB. Not the distributor you bought it from, but the actual MTB. When our maintenance crew was sent out for training on our Makino's, they went to Ohio (I think) and learned a lot about diagnosing and repairing our machines. That may be what you have to do.https://parts-provider.com/fanuc-series-16-18-backup-and-restore-procedure/as a woodworker that dabbles in metalwork (or is it visa-versa), I approveCool! Did he thread the screw himself?That’s awesome!thats identical to the one i made in school 10 years agoRight on!Ha I had to make one for my toolmakers apprenticeship 22 flipping years ago- I still have it somewhere - here CLAMPThis was one of our metals class projects in high school!Even if he doesn't go into machining, he will have learned many valuable lessons. I wish I had had the opportunity at that age.On my semi CNC lathe (no probes or anything like that) I just load up some stock and turn the OD a bit of the tool I need the offset for. Then you measure what you cut with a micrometer and do the math with your X readout on the screen to set that tools offset. Then G54 X offset is usually 0 as all tools are set relative to the centerline.But i’m sure people here will have better ideas and referencesu/iDvorak is correct. I run/program a TL2, without probes. Once your tool is in, cut on a spare piece of stock and measure it to set your tool x offset. Your G54 X should most often be 0.That Mori 5-Axis VMC is serious business.I prefer the Fanuc base controller. Is that the Mitsubishi one?And it’s way more user friendly than the only other 5axis I’ve ran. (Chiron dual spindle)Meh, it's just the tip...How can a tip break? Smashed it manually?$130 is what mine cost meCould be worse.The fuck you do that for?That table feed drive is definitley a later add on. It's a pretty common one. You gonna clean up and oil those slideways and feed screws before you move anything?Looks similar to the newer Abene VHF models, except the head is on the opposite side PictureIt’s certainly very strange for a machine builder not to put their name anywhere on the castings.Have you looked literally everywhere on the machine and not found any trace of a name?Judging by the design it’s a bread and butter machine, quickly designed and easily manufactured, so it could have been built quite literally anywhere in the world.That being said, it looks quite simple. Write your own manual as you go along. 🤷‍♂️If you want lube recommendations I’m sure someone in this sub can help out.I have no idea but if you want oil recommendation: for your flat surfaces I would use line oil (translation from Dutch Leibaan olie) and for under the vice something acid free but a thick fat like bearing fat and the same for all the grease points with nipples.Watch for the kind of grease points, the flat ones are for thin oil and the outer ones are for thick fat.Very unusual machine, definitely looks like northern European build. I know certain Danish companies would engrave their name in the y-axis ways, so check all surfaces..So weird, lack of machine driven power feeds, odd locations and hand wheels, and just general weirdness of it good luck with finding info.Hmm, this or that Tormach 440 I have been eyeing?What kind of tolerances can something like this hold?Yes, the bed size isn't half bad and all, but can it do rigid tapping?Sorry its a little small for me.My wife would definitely not let me put that in (on top of?) the house.I'd have to see it run first...How is a 2011 machine that must have cost millions and required a special footing, building and thousands of hours of skilled technicians and millwrights to set it up for sale in 2017?This makes no sense to me at all and seems like either a thoughtless waste or a some kind of financial fraud was perpetrated.Solidworks for 3D modeling. I think Mastercam is the most popular CAM but there are lots. If you're just learning, download Fusion 360 for free and start playing with it and watching tutorials on youtubefusion 360 as its the only software under a grand per year to useWe use Creo, UG, Cimitron, Mastercam, Esprit, and some home brewed software for sinker EDM.We use fusion 360. It is cheapest option and does almost everything we need. There are some operations they dont have, but those are rare birds anyway.Solid works. Cam works. Solid cam. Esprit. Mastercam. I'm my opinion solid cam and cam works are the bestBobCAD-CAMhuman brain.exeWe’ve got a 2007 vf2 that’s still kicking ass and taking names and a 2013 vf4 both going strong.Late 2000 haas models are old? Idk how we turn out parts on late 80s early 90s machines then lolIt's an ok machine, run better and run worse. It really wants to be a 50 taper machine so I found a few times it was just hard running parts the size of the table with a 4" facemill. Like any Haas VMC there is flex in the head so you will notice that you can't take super deep cuts and a spring pass is mandatory on critical stuff. But that said it's not a bad machine, you just need to figure out its qwerks and work with them.A 2007 Haas is really old. I'd try to find something newer.This is one of those annoying things where there's not a perfect answerNominal + fit is best practice for engineering. Keeps things clear, parametric, keeps analyses and DFM consistent.Middle tolerance, of course, saves machinists time. It avoids having to set offsets when programming, or do math on prints.Even as someone who just turned a 4" dia part with 6x asymmetric +0.001 -0.0005 bores, which required some math, I think that keeping CAD and prints to nominal still makes the most sense especially if you're dealing with engineering overhead. But if it's just a random OnShape part for a personal project, who cares.Always nominalA model with everything in the middle of the tolerance is easier to program, but I understand how that makes more work for you.In either case, I always want the print to have nominal dimensions with the tolerances because that communicates design intent better. And that would make even more work for you in the case of the model being in the middle of the tolerance.At the end of the day, it's up to me to make the part right and "you didn't model it the way I wanted" is a shit excuse for me doing it wrong.Nominal.Middle of tolerance is then GPS territory.Nominal! Tolerances may not be symmetrical about the nominal dimension.Nominal, as long as you’re talking “I need a 1.950” +0.00 -0.005 hole here” and not “It’s 2 inches, -0.050, -0.055”It’s supposed to be -this- value for a perfect part.Allowable deviation from perfect is + this, minus that for it to still work.If it goes out of the tolerance zone from the perfect part it’s scrap.Nominal, but if you want to be nice to your machinist, use symmetric tolerances where reasonable.The CAD model should be to nominal, but when I'm programming I'm going to put the line in the middle of the tolerance.Are you comping height or diameter? Are you using EIA or mazatrol?Each tool will have a height and diameter; usually H & D.... Like this;T01 X0.0Y0.0 H01 D01The h & d usually correspond to tool call, but newer controls usually allow calling tools like this tooT01 X0.0Y0.0 H147 D147That calls the new diameter and/or tool height for different desires.... Just make sure in D147 you have the corrected diameter.....Machine manufacturers dictate the allowed range of calls.Make sense?It' been a while, but on Mazak Fusion or newer don't you get multiple comps on the tool data page? I thought it was like a Siemens where you always call D1 or H1 regardless of tool number. On a Siemens additional offsets require you to define additional cutting edges.I swear that's how Mazak works too.when a lathe guy runs a millWish all job ads were this goodI own a chinese mini 12" bench lathe and the other day I made a spinning top that spins for over 3 minutes.Do I need an interview or would you like me to just turn up? (Would have to be next Tuesday though because I have plans for a long weekend)From the sidebarIf you are looking to post a job opening, our only requirement is that you post the salary or hourly wage of the job posting.What kind of experience are you looking for? What would be the starting pay?Got anything for the less experienced?For example someone who... Can weld Great with metal fab Some experience with manual machines. Dedicated and very hard working.High school student on Apprenticeship here. I've ran HBM, radial drills, Lathes, Knee mills, CNC Haas mill, Mazak Lathe, Swiss Lathe, 4 and 5 axis machines, EDM. I'm currently working on my programming skills. What kind of CAD/CAM software do you use? What kind of school would you being willing to send someone to? I'm more interested in the CNC machinist/Programmer title. Looking for more experience and opportunity. I'm not interested in push button jobs for the long term.If you are fairly sure about the roundness of your bore, or don't need to be absolutely dead nuts, probe off center with one subprogram to find your X center, then probe center Y. That's all a bore probe program does, and it doesn't matter if you don't start in the middle of the circle because the midpoint between those linear moves is still in line with the bore center.Put an indicator in a tool holder and sweep the bore. It's probably almost as fast as getting your probe to dance how you want. Draw yourself a few models with the most ridiculous weird features and worst ones you can think of, then program it.I'm going through a similar journey currently.Our shop just switched from Inventor/HSM Cam to Mastercam and I'm trying to figure it out from square one.You've probably looked up the usual Mastercam learning places like Caminstructor. I've ended up trying (and later subbing to) Streamingteacher and found that they had pretty good content. It was incredibly valuable for me. There is a ton of free stuff on there to get you going. You can use their provided models to start figuring things out.Caminstructor was up there on my list, but the annual fee was a bit scary. They have a bunch of very interesting Youtube videos too.The forums at emastercam are another great resource. We also get access to all their ecourses through our reseller, as long as we keep up with the maintenance. But I found them to be a bit less... helpful. (It's more of an "Go here, click this, do this" type of tutorial.)If at all possible, ask for some sample programs from the new place and study the everliving crap out of them. That will help you understanding how they approach part and tool setups. Maybe you can even get their existing posts and try to reverse engineer those.While you have the HLE, a couple suggestions:-Study the crap out of the wireframe and transform functions, that will come up constantly. The gnomon will take some getting used to.-Learn how to use Planes and Levels. Start dialing in your organization within the file. Label toolpaths and organize levels in a way that would make sense when you review the file a year down the road.-Figure out the configuration and options menu now. Find out where mastercam stores its settings and posts. Know where all the functions are located.-Figure out how to import solids from other cad suites into Mcam and how to position them for your setup. (if it's an option) That will usually be your first step when making programs.-Now is also a fantastic time to learn how to build tool libraries, adjust tool geometries and import 3d tool assemblies from Sandvik/Machinecloud-Generally speaking, i find the actual toolpathing relatively straightforward. It's all the other crap that slows me down massively. Mastercam often isn't very descriptive in its error messages and often you'll end up fighting with parameters and geometry just to have it display something.That being said, while Mastercam does have its share of flaws (All CAM suites do), it will feel quite intuitive once you get used to it. Just stick with it and keep practicing.Best thing to do if you’re time limited for actual hands on is videos. Immerse yourself in MasterCAM tutorials, along with tips/tricks. It is basically a way to force your brain to start thinking the MasterCAM way... good trick for learning a new skill really.Them snow chains on that fork lift?Jeebus... Did that forklift manage to pick it up from one end like that? Or wast it just sort of scooting it in along the floor?I bet that thing costs more than an arm and a leg.Which optional goodies did you get for the machine? There's everything available, from a lower turret to a second tool magazineYes circular interpolation would allow you to put the juice to. I will do a little look for you on that control.Is there a reason you cant drill to size?Also, I would highly recommend getting a bigger endmill. 20mm would be grand but 18 or 16 would be probably just as good.Edit: can you not just punch in a few lines of code? Or does it need to be a canned cycle?What are you using for CAM? use the biggest endmill you can get in your drilled hole with clearance, then use a 2D adaptive clearing toolpath to rough out the rest of the material, with a 2D contour as a finish pass to get final size/finish.Why not buy a 35mm drill?Fusion 360 works well and will do exactly what you need to have done to these parts, just bear in mind that your files will be uploaded into Autodesks' cloud no matter what, so make sure your boss is cool with that firstHere is the code that I'm using right now.:;CENTRAL DRILL D25;INDEXABLE INSERT DRILL D25;POS X40 Y40T2 D1 M6M3 S3183 F100G0 X40 Y40G0 Z1CYCLE81(30, 0, 5, -1, 0)G0 Z1 F150CYCLE83(30, 0, 5, -18, 0, -6,  ,5, 0, 5, 1, 0, 3, 0, 16,  ,0)G0 Z50 M9;CENTRAL MILL D25 TO D35.1 helical interpolation;CARBIDE SOLID END MILL D10T3 D1 M6M3 S6048 F2056 M8G0 X40.5 Y52.95G0 X40 Y52.55 Z1G3 X40 Y52.55 Z-16 I0 J-12.55 TURN=115G3 X40 Y52.55 Z-16 I0 J-12.55G0 Z50-5000 points for using the word chippings<Edit> posted before catching a you're a student so I'll actually be constructive. Looks like smaller diameter drill chips and they look normal for that type of tool. Keep at it!The perfect pile to drop thread wireWhat model of machine is this? It seems cozyNoIs $110k even good money in LA? Isn't the cost of living crazy high?Good opportunity for a young gun.well good luck. I've had recruiters call me alot. I always start the conversation with I'm open to relocation to anywhere but CA.Best advise I can give you is work with any and all recruiters that call. It's not cheap but they'll find people that werent looking who could be tempted by an offer.Your best bet is robbing people from shops in the area.I should also add, they had relocation and the benefits are great as well, I moved to work there and it was easy, plus LA has great food.Need a remote programmer just to take some load off?cars? start up? 10 Miles from my house? sign me up. in all seriousness unless you need someone with a couple years experience in general machining I'm your guy. if not...well. I'm not.It’s a validating feeling when you successfully make your first 5 axis program. Well done.Incredible, I use a dmg 5 axis with Siemens controller and tebis and it’s witchcraft, if your tools are drawn up correctly and you have quality holders you can watch the machine perform miraclesDamn, as a fabricator who is not a machinist, videos like this are so cool. When a 5 axis is making irregular parts like this, with all the speed/angle variations & abrupt starts/stops, it almost looks like something is wrong.What machine is this?Nice machineCan we see the end result?I do basic algebra all the time.Don't regularly use trig. No need.95% addition and subtraction. Some basic trig for single angles and stuff. Anything more complex gets drawn in mastercam because why risk a fuck up on account of bad math.Algebra, obvs. Then geometry and trig. I haven't actually done any calculus for machining stuff, but it's only a matter of time.Right now I'm working on a model of something that does Fourier analysis/synthesis mechanically, but I don't actually have to do any FFTs myself to make the model.99% very basic addition and subtraction. Everything else (angles and such) is in the drawings. I use Siemens software on my CNC machine, it calculates the rest.Trig for me. Other than basic addition and subtraction.Basic addition and subtraction, some algebra if I need to calculate any spindle speeds or feed rates.I used to do all of my trig on a piece of paper...now I just go draw it out in my CAM software lol.Subtraction. :D "This part is how big? And it needs to be how big? Okay, so I need to take off X minus Y. Cool."SFPMx3.8/diameterWhat kind of raise should I be asking for when I'm moved up? There was a vague mention of making something like 11% more once I move up out of my current role.Can't answer that without knowing where you started. The best way to judge the value of your skillset is to interview at other machining places from time to time and see what your market worth is. You can then take that back and use to guide you when asking for a raise, or you can move on when the difference between what you can get currently and what someone else will pay you is large.How do I make the most money possible out of this kind of work? What's the advancement path look like?Rule of thumb is, the more scarce the machining skillset you have, the more valuable your skillset will be. With that in mind our most valued machinists:Are experts in CAM, able to get the machine to do pretty much anything they want because they know their CAM software inside out.Can build a robust production process that make correct parts day-in-day-out with idiot proofing throughout. There's a big difference between a program that makes a prototype sort of right one time with fudging, vs a process that makes thousands of units and anyone on the shop floor can run because it's absolutely bulletproof.Can build processes for more challenging materials. Even knowing how to work stainless steels is a big step up, but learn how to work with e.g. Inconel/Titanium and that's a golden ticket right there.Can interpret complex engineering drawings and challenge the customer on why the hell they put all those ridiculous tolerances all over the place, and come back with concessions that make the part easier to produce and the customer happier.Have an excellent attitude and let nothing stand in their way to getting parts out the door on time.Are team players and leaders, able to guide and train others.Know their way around more than one machine controller e.g. Mazatrol+Siemens+Fanuc.Can make BIG parts or run a more rare but valuable machine e.g. a millturn.This is a journey and will take you years, but it's a good investment of time.What can I do to make them spend more time showing me how to use the machines or to learn more about how the shop works?Every shop is different, but if you're super-tenacious and you just keep asking, you'll keep learning. If you learn outside of hours that'll set you in good stead. I'd get hold of a license for home use e.g. Fusion has a limited free version with enough CAM to get started on the basics and good video tutorials.Something I've experimented with that also helps is take some PDFs of machining books, dump them into ChatGPT to make a machining GPT, then start asking questions - the outputs can be pretty helpful.What kind of studying can I do and/or what skills can I practice to make sure I'm at least familiar with the basics? No shop experience means I'm constantly having to ask embarrassingly basic questions.Maybe your shop is different but my view is there's no such thing as a stupid question in machining - everything is complicated, and most people love explaining it. Just keep asking and asking and asking. I'd watch a lot of NYC CNC and you'll pick loads up: https://www.youtube.com/@nyccncSounds like the start of a really exciting journey for you :)Take lots of notes and build a binder/e-binder.Move shops every 2 to 3 years till you "made it" and go to a corporation for the easy life and pension.Become good at set-ups on multiple machines. A dialed in set up is key to a successful program and operation. IMO that is lacking right now. Real machinist programmers.You should be getting at least one raise per year and a nice bonus at the end. More raises if you're green.I learned to hand program. Now these days that might be out of touch, but it really helped me troubleshoot problems. Knowing your G and M codes really speeds things up in your brain.After I became good at set up and quality control, I learned Mastercam at college. Helped me finish my degree and opened up a bunch of opportunities. Knowing Siemens, and Espirit are good to know also. Very powerful CAD/CAM programs.Good Luck!Learn all you can all the time, seek out information nobody else knows. Material science, metallurgy, kinematics (your math and physics will help here!), equipment maintenance, anything that interests you related to machining don't be afraid to go down a rabbit hole. Show off the skills you do have, but don't brag about them. When someome makes a mistake, learn from it but don't get nosey about itYou can start by learning how to read a caliper and a micrometer, if you don’t know already. Practice those because you’ll use those tools the most for inspections and what not.Be eager to learn but at the same time learn from your mistakes. You’ll crash the machine, that I can guarantee you, as long as you learned from it, the crash was worth it.Once you get a handle of CNC and learn a few basics you can also decide the different industries you’d like to be in. There’s medical, automotive, aerospace, tool and die etc. all similar yet so different. Pick your poison hahahaAlways ask questions when unsure, it shows you truly care. No matter how dumb it may seem. I’ve been in the trade for 4 years and I’m always asking others for feedback, I pick their brains, etc. Machining is fun, but it definitely isn’t for everyone. Seems like you would be a good fit tho. Best of luck OP!Neat looking part.Isn't the Harvi 1 more focused towards steels though? They have been pushing the Kor-5 for aluminum on my application.Kinda overkill endmill for it, is it not? Like, anything machines aluminium pretty well.What's the control? I don't recognize it....I own a 90's 420SLL that is very similar, just no Y axis. What info are you looking for?DMU50 with a hadenhain is a good choice. Rigid, big table, assume it’s hsk63? Evo is probably a little over the top for your first 5 axis, although they are awesome.1st choice is a hermle, DMG is second choice.I Wouldn’t even consider anything else in your list. You want a heidenhain for M128 or 840d for traori.Dmg is good, but they are a bit overpriced. I compared their mill tap vs a Robodrill awhile back. Similarly speced, the DMG was twice the cost of the Robodrill. On the Mazak I would avoid if possible, their service is lousy. Also Mazatrol is kind of a mess. There is no better way to confuse on operator than by having a control that has 2 programming languages built in. One of which you will never use. Why are you set on HSK?Mazak Variaxis is a very solid machine worth looking into, it’ll fall into a similar price spectrum as the DMG machines. Personally I’d take a Monoblock over a DMU if money were no issueSort of depends on what market you’re aiming for. MasterCAM is everywhere and what I learned first.Starting to get recruiters asking for NX or CATIA for higher end machines and TS-SCI work.Whatever the majority of the shops around you run. Here it's Mastercam, 200 miles away it's NX, etc. I worked with a guy who struggled to get a job because he was an NX guy who moved here and nobody wanted to teach him Mastercam.If you know any one CAD package, it’s pretty easy to pick up another. Best way to learn imo is to just try making parts, and when you get stuck go to YouTube.I agree with the previous reply. And I also agree to the fact that Catia is incredibly user unfriendly and counter intuitive, but a potent CAD system...I also agree with the last two responses. I moved from Gibbs to Solid Cam years ago by just playing with it. If you can navigate Master Cam, you will be able to figure out just about everything else. Hypermill will be a bit tricky but, that's mostly because their UI is old feeling.I also agree with the last three responses. It just seemed like the thing to do.CATIA has an absolutely atrocious learning curve, but is incredibly potent. You’ll do best with some form of in-person training.3dx is slightly easier for me than V5, but pays for it as the base of the program becomes more difficult to use.I use Esprit for INDEX machines running Siemens but my posts can’t touch the programs output by NX.NX offers like a month trial via remote access I think?I love multitasking lathes. I'm more partial to the multus right now but to each his own. Enjoy your new toy and don't let people crash it.EDIT: spellingThe economics of aerospace are interesting. When they’re making enough of something, they’ll die cast a near net shape and cut from there. But if it’s a one off, the old “one tree, one toothpick” approach is the way to go.An aerospace guy I met years ago that had a sign in his office “When in doubt, hog it out!”I know you have a chip conveyor.Some people’s kids, I swear.ive never heard of using grease. gonna try this one day. 👍AdorableAbsolutely gorgeous. What kind of tools did you use to finish those interior walls with?Kitchen sink, but more expensive.Aww A2, so proud. You know, I told Sean and Andrew those parts weren’t going to be done in two weeks. Looks like I wasn’t wrong.I run a lot of Haas and continually want to get back off it and onto something else again. They work fine, the 3 axis machines are great and cheap. I've cut plenty of stainless and CRS in them. The 5 axis machines have been fine too. I find the Haas 50 taper to be as strong at everyone else's 40 taper. A nearly fully optioned Haas is about the same as the base model of others.I miss the Mazaks, finally have an Okuma now I like. I think the Haas control is still one of the easier ones to use, and their maintenance will actually show up when you call with the parts - I believe that is the appeal.For 30-50% more money it's possible to get double the machine but double the service time if/when things break. I'll be without a toolsetter and breakage detection for a month or two for my Okuma once it's wrapped up. However I'm able to rough 4x faster than our Haas.If the plan is to take heavy cuts in steel then you want something with box ways, not linear rails. Probably want a CAT50 spindle or HSK equivalent as well. Thru spindle coolant is a must for deep holes and pockets. A probing sytem is really nice but not necessarily a must.I have an okuma from 1994 that still holds tenths. Mori is the industry leader but is expensive, Doosan and Okuma would be my next level of quality maybe mazak as well.I've always used Fanuc controls but people say they aren't intuitive.To get a machine up and running quickly I would look into something that has conversational programming. Mazak and Mori seem popular for this.Since this is your first CNC machine I would also make sure you buy a machine that has local support, maintenance, applications engineering etc. This will be invaluable when things go wrong.Every big machine has its pros and cons. One major tradeoff I've seen in large HBMs is rigidity:repeatability. I've ran machines you can hog as hard as you want and they'll keep going, even if your inserts are completely gone. But I wouldn't trust them to hit really tight positional tolerances. Other machines are the complete opposite. They'll hit 0.0005" positional all day long, but can't handle big heavy roughing cuts, at least not for any great length of time.As for controllers, I've ran Tosnuc, Fanuc, Siemens and Sinumerik. Fanuc is good in that it is a very common controller, so if you ever get CAM software, it doesn't take much support to get the post up and running. Also, because they are common, when you hire someone with CNC experience in the future, lots of times they will have Fanuc experience. Tosnuc and Sinumerik are very similar to Fanuc programming wise. Tosnuc has a nice offset feature that gives you over 100 possible coordinate settings, which is nice for some part programs, even if all you are changing is a Z depth.Currently running a Siemens controller. It is not very intuitive, but it is incredibly powerful. I'm completely self-taught on it, and I can make it do some pretty cool things, but I know I'm still barely scratching the surface. Siemens also uses some weird proprietary code as well, so getting posts made up for a CAM is major pain in the butt, as Siemens controllers aren't as common.From what I've seen and read, Haas is a lot better than "good enough"I wont bible bang on Haas as the best at or for anything. However, for the money. You can’t beat it. It’s cheap, people everywhere online are willing to help program for it and they can actually turn really accurate parts in a very fast time IF you have a good CAD/CAM department. As far as maintenance they don’t want for much but do need you to do weekly and monthly PM’s or they’ll shut down. Otherwise most shit goes bad In warranty.That being said. If money is less a problem then for most. All day every day till the end of time: the new OKUMA machines are amazing and I highly recommend them. Far smarter than anything on the market and probably less expensive than like DMG.*edited for grammarMight be worth your time to look at a kuraki or okuma. Our kurakis are reaching 40 years old and still running well. Our older okuma is reaching 30 and still works great, although I’ve never liked the guards.Most people will tell you that you can’t be a decent programmer until you’re a decent machinist first. Basically every machine shop is hiring right now, so inquire at some places and make it known that you’ll want to learn programming too. Usually you’ll want to start at a smaller shop where you can learn a little bit of everything.You need to at least learn the basics of machining before you learn how to program.Start machining first.Finding a related job now to get experience before moving would be an excellent idea. I also like to recommend (especially for transplants) to utilize temporary agencies to find jobs. They have the scoop on businesses hiring, even ones not on indeed or whatever. They can often get you higher wages than you would think and can help you shop for your employer. You can get your foot in the door in an entry position and ALWAYS make it known how willing you are to learn and grow.Nobody worth their salt will hire a complete noob to program machines. This isn’t meant as a slam or anything, but there is way too much machining experience that goes into programming for anyone to be successful at it without knowing the type of machine they’re programming for. What’s the difference between a climb and a conventional cut? How do you convert metric tap feeds to feed in inches? What sorts of fixturing strategies have you got in mind? What’s SFM? Again, I’m not trying to be a dick about it, but you’re kind of asking to be a team captain straight off the street without any experience to back it up. People will look at you like you’re completely off your tits.Small to medium shops will use a couple different types of CAD/CAM probably mostly Fusion 360. Medium to Big will mostly use MasterCAM. And Big to fortune 500 Goliaths mostly use Seimans NX. Without any experience the likelihood of being hired as a programmer in anything but a small shop is slim. Not undo able but fairly low probability.Fusion 360’s basic function is free and there are a bunch of different YouTube tutorials.Master CAM can be free if you get it through them but it’ll be neutered. Titans of CNC has a full on step by step walkthrough on how to use it.Seimans NX has some tutorials on their website. I don’t know how good they are but I want to try them myself eventually.You need to work as a machinist first and learn the tooling and how to fixture up parts and stuff like that then move on to programming. That’ll make you a good programmer ."Busted" can mean more than one thing. An encoder can be broken but still output enough of a signal that the controller/drive will recognize it's there. That could be what's going on with your system. Alternatively, whatever mechanical coupling connects the encoder to the spindle could be broken, so it won't spin with the spindle but works fine otherwise.Depending on the type of motor and control system, the spindle will still spin at about the right speed without any encoder feedback as you've described, though I'd expect it would give you a warning or something - but that just depends on how the software is done.They're solid medium tier machines. We have a DVF5000 5 axis mill and it's been good. Fanuc is not the best for 5 axis and you can feel its limits but on 3 axis and lathes Fanuc is just super solid and stable. Be sure to have the machine's manual because you can learn a lot of unknown codes and procedures to unfuck the machine in case of issues.HMI interface sucks. S2 at startup screen will shortcut you to the legacy side.Shift S1 will jump to EZ guide/ Manual guide i.The new controls are an application on a Windows backend, have had them lock up a couple times.Miss the old Fanuc keypad like on the 32i and earlier.Don't know a whole lot on the mills, turning centers are solid.Fanuc controller.Good luck finding all the letters when writing commentsI bought the same machine last year. I love it.Probing was a bit tricky to figure out but Renishaws customer service is great.Only complaint is key layout on that control isn't as efficient as an old 17-21iCrash itI think you'd be well served by the move, I know quite a few people who have made the move and become quite successful. Job markets vary a lot by state but the midwest is very industrial and aerospace/automotive heavy. Most but not all employers will pay insurance, also, cost of living is low in the midwest.This is basically a downgrade unless you plan on doing a mix of design and manufacturing.I'm a mechanical engineer!I used to work for a company that makes automation equipment for the aerospace industry. I have a mill and lathe in my basement and I volunteer with a robotics team, so today very little of my dial spinning is done professionallyAs a career, being a machinist is a waste of your degree. There are however plenty of places where you can apply your degree to manufacturing processes that frankly would be more interesting.At my first job we were responsible for designing, building, and qualifying automation equipment. I programmed CNCs and worked with materials engineers to develop drilling cycles and to optimize cycle time and workpiece quality as well as to design implement and oversee quality inspection procedures.Today, I work with a group that does a fair amount of qualification testing. It's not uncommon for me to run home if it's a weird hour and knock out a bracket and bend up an enclosure to get something shipped for a deadline. But my company is very much paying more than $120 an hour (my burdened rate) for a job we could farm out for half that.That being said; there are days I get home from work and all I want to do is turn blocks into chips for a few hours.Pm'd youJealous, you get named variables for your macros.What kind of machine are you running?Weve got a DMU60, CTX 800 and CMX all with Siemens and I would probably quit if I had to run another machine! What mill is that and are you having to manually write each probe macro like that? Weve always used the Probing cycles in ShopMILL and ProgramGuide.I can't imagine any scenario where I'm picking a Prototrak over a HAAS.Haas. Better service.Haas all day all night I never want to see another trak machine esp the lathe.My vote is haas. Easier to learn on for those who don’t have the know-howHaas is the lesser of two evils unless your parts are stupid simple and always one off.Depends on what your doing really. One off's and modifications probably the trak production Haas. The Trak service around me is really good, I have not needed a tech for the Haas. That probably says something. If you don't have a cam software and a programmer the Trak is more appealing as well. I use fusion 360 for my cad\cam and getting the Trak to do cutter comp is way more trouble than it should be. Also forget gcode on the lathe your programming that through the conversation only.These opinions are using the Trak control though and they have new seimens controlled machines out now and all that might be out the window. I have gone and seen a demo of the control for the seimens controlled lathe and it looked very powerful and they assured me that I could post gcode using the included post processors from fusion but I never got a hands on with that part so I'm not sure what kinds of quarks you might find there.Haas, the service can be spotty, but there is a lot of free content online for training. A vm2 with high tool count and trt is my goto for prototyping.Why not get a Hurco VM10i? They've got excellent conversational abilities... They're way better than a Haas in pretty much every way. Rigidity, reliability, accuracy, resale.Same base price as a vf1 with more standard options, and 6“ more travel in the x... "26x16x20". Also, it fits in a 5'x7' envelope. Would be an excellent choice for prototyping imo.Bought a DMU200P and DMC200U in 2004. I programmed a job that had been taking 13 hours across 11 other CNC machines. 250kg cast steel with chill spots. We got it down to 2 ops and 1 hour 45 minutes total with 3 operators on each machine per shift working continental shift patterns, 4 on 4 off night and day. OMG, that machine was so flexible and fast. I would have rather had the A Winkle Kopf rather than the B head; and would certainly have gone geared not electro spindle had I known my jobs were going to be steel and not aluminium as was originally specified. ha ha. But still a huge amount of fun. I've been to Pfronten 3 times, and even took my family one time - what a sad MF I am. But what an awesome area. DMG rocks - and then rocks again.Arent these the machines other CNC machines are made on?Deckel- there is no substituteDaewoo is garbage nice upgrade.Is that a rotating window from a ship? I'm assuming it gets pretty messy in there huh?What model? The DMG machines are fantastic. Now that Mori is on board, I am expecting some ridiculous innovations.Which controller did it come with?you might be in swiveling mode. go to mdi and type in "cycle800()" and run the blockYou are currently stuck in cycle 800 or Traori go to MDI run M30 try again this should fix it ....Is this heidenhain or siemens controller? if this is siemens control then what the other guys said should help, if its heidenhain then you will need to perform a PLANE RESET (in SPEC FCT button), or turn the 3D Rotation off for Manual machining mode. (soft key 3D ROT in manual mode)Haas is NOT a top of the line brand, but rather one of the best 'value for money' brands that's out there.The Haas VF-2 is the single most common CNC machine in the US. It's the F150 of the machine tool world.People constantly shit on Fords, but that doesn't stop them from buying one and using it for years and years. It's a solid product that gets the job done.They're fine machines, not the best accuracy or the most rigid, but for the work that 95% of shops do they're more than adequate.My issue with them is that they put all the dangerous buttons all next to each other. Option stop near turret index, I don’t know how many times I accidentally hit the coolant button instead of single block, handle feed is right next to turret index.A poor craftsman always blames his tools. Haas machines are great workhorses. Are they the absolute best money can buy? No. Will they get the job done? Absolutely. Haas control is also my favorite.I don't think there is a reason to buy a Haas in 2023. The value is no longer there. Their marketing department is top-notch, but their engineering and manufacturing can't keep up with demand.A few minor issues:Their quality seems to be slowly slipping every year.Their NGC control is slow at processing, buggy, freezes at random, and has trouble with simultaneous 5AXThe Haas control is no longer user-friendly compared to other modern controls #siemens840DgangChip management is awful(around me)Their support is slowly getting further and further out. They are no longer doing annual maintenance.services techs aren't the most experiencedtheir tool changers drop tools occasionallyspindles are loudLow horsepower/rigiditymachine protection is lacking compared to competitors(sometimes it trips with minimal vibration, sometimes it doesn't trip when it really should)hard to market/rep for not being serious (it's a lot easier to get new business when you can tell someone in the know that you have a DMG Mori vs a Haas)A few plusses:support is often quick to get with a google searchbare-bones machines are priced very competitivelyeasy to find machinists with familiaritypostprocessor availability is phenomenalThey have never been a super high-end, rigid machine, but not every job needs/makes sense to run on a Yasda.If you are going to get a bare-bones VF series, I don't think you are making a terrible decision. However, I think there are more user-friendly control options and better value in other machine tool builders in 2023(especially when you start to add minor options).Most importantly, resist the temptation to get a second Haas when you are looking for machine #2.Those that shit on Haas are the ones that have been blessed that their company bought them million dollar machines and never even laid hands on a Haas. They do great work for the price and you can get some great parts out of it when you use them within their limits.If you find one for around that price - snag it up..paid $125,000 for new vf2 in USA 2 1/2 yrs ago only 3 axis...4th&5th axis will add $$$$$ Good luck ....Optimum mills are probably a little small, but definitely within your price rangeyou know Haas in made in USA right?!?!Check out POS. I worked on an E1100 for 2 years and I have to say it was a pretty good machine. I don't know the exact price but I was told it was quite cheap for what it was capable of. Also, they are extendable with a 4th/5th axis.Where can I buy this for $381k? I’ll buy one before the end of the year"I got rich in 2 months by this one simple trick. You don't have to grind, and I just work 3 hours a day."10 minutes later"Just start off by buying $420,000 of these high demand products straight from manufacturer, and sell them all for $1 million profit."Sounds like the answer to people asking how to become a profitable farmerThe usual answer is to start out with $2mil and be $1mil in debt year after yearThis is so funny.Back in the 90's I would watch a lot of Norm Abram on the show The New Yankee Workshop. Every time, about half way through the show he would say something like: "Now we'll take this over to the 48" drum sander and remove a 32nd of an inch." Or something similar with a different "If I had a million dollars machine." At the time I was like Dude! I have a 1/4 sheet palm sander and a block plane. How in the actual F%%k?????In hind sight it taught me to be better in my layup and how to improvise.I’ll be honest, this is why I hate Titans of CNC. Talks about nothing but how he has a massive warehouse with millions of dollars of equipment and CNC machines to make “impossible” parts.Yes, his crew is talented and so is he. But by no means did he work nearly as hard as the majority of CNC shop owners that had to split hairs to get even a 3 axis mill.That dick butt is fucking hilarious!how much weight was removed? Doesn't look like too much.Which CAM software did you use? Good work.What is the electronics package in the handle? Is it still possible to get a close-up of that too? Nice cuts though!I hope you got to peel off all that plastic wrapping. Hnnng it's grand doing thatWaiting on an LNS barfeed, LNS Fox mist collector, two Hardinge Flex-C 65mm collet chucks for the main and sub spindles. Not shown is a Cooljet 1000psi 8gpm high pressure coolant pump, LNS chip conveyor, parts conveyor, and a bunch of tools. Can't wait to get it up and running.Holy fuck. I was just in a shop with 15 (!) of these. They are literally the nicest machines I've ever seen run.Makes my shop full of Haas feel a little lacking - but at least they're all mine!Congrats bro, have fun with this one.About a month ago we got a Hwacheon Vesta 1000 with a 12k spindle. I use it everyday, it's quite a nice machine. Is Hwacheon as nice as DMG-Moris?Cool, that one is nice! We are waiting for a DMU50, should arrive early in the spring as they just now started putting it together.Last shop I was in bought 5 DMG MillTap 700s. Everyone hated the Siemens control. Everyone hated how you couldn't do anything with the door open (the remote control required both hands to operate the override switch and spin the dials so you couldn't set tools as easily). But boy, once they were set up and running, the 24k spindles slashed the cycle times of some jobs at least in half compared to the rest of the shop which was full of old Fadals.Good luck with the new beast!Looks nice. Do you know how much for just the basic machine?What part of CA? we had dark skies like that around here and the building looks familiar.I just put comments in the program. I also try to define all of my variables at the top of the program and separate them into user-editable and non-user editable ones. Ie. do your math separate from defining your variables. For subprograms, I would leave a brief description of what values it's passing and how it functions at the top of the subprogram.Then again, I'm the only person that would really have to use them.Typically no. The quill axis is generally not meant for heavy use. You set it to where you need for reach then use the Z axis for work. There may be a way but not one I am familiar with. But my only experience with a W quill axis is on a horizontal bar.Can’t you just use W instead of Z in your G73 line?How deep down the rabbit hole do you want to go?Get hired somewhere with those controls. any other practice is not real experience so I don't think it's of any value. The thing with this "complex machinery" you may encounter: you will be trained accordingly. It really doesn't take long to be taught how to run new machines, extra axes or not. Most guys would prefer you to learn "their" way of running these machines anyways; if you come in there with some ineffective prior learning from manuals etc it may be more of a hindrance.I certainly would be less likely to hire a a guy who thinks he has a clue because of some book learning about CNC, instead of the correct experience: years of running those controls in a production setting. there is no substitute for this and if anything, a blank slate is preferred to a preconception of know-how without practical experience.There is no point in brushing up on conversational controls. They're all going to be different, and by design they're simple enough to not really require previous knowledge to use them.I wouldn't worry about any of the other stuff either until you actually have a job working with those controls, and I would expect to be trained on how to use the controls on the job. I use Okuma controls every day and everybody that we've hired from another company that doesn't use Okuma controls, but has read up on them has somehow had a much harder time adjusting to them than people that have no experience or knowledge of them to begin with. Even I can struggle with certain things on some Okuma controls if they're not the ones I'm used to. There are at least 6 different styles of Okuma controls here and they're all similar, but different enough that finding certain things can be a challenge.Get the job first, then learn the machine. Knowing how to actually cut stuff is the important part, not intimate knowledge of a certain brand or type of control.In my opinion, anything beyound 2 and 3 axis machines will be programmed with CAM anywaysThe only accessible and useful tools I have found for learning without the machine is LinuxCNC. You can edit its config files as a e.g. a lathe with a C and Y axis, and the community is helpful as open source communities usually are. You can download a Live USB image which you can boot into, so you don't have to learn everything about Linux just to do this.Its toolpath graphing software is very nice. It doesn't have any canned roughing cycles, but the macro facilities are top notch.What is the Siemens learning challenge?Edit: here’s the only thing I can find about it. Not sure what the challenge is though.Umm that's a tank. Pretty sure the design has been around a while.That article has a whole bunch of bullshit in it. Prime example:"An omnidirectional camera platform on the top transmits videos and information in real time, coupled with an intelligent vision algorithm that allows the operator to remotely locate affected areas and prevent the spread of infectious diseases at low cost."Essentially they are claiming that their shitty looking robot can "see" coronavirus?It looks like all they did was take an existing design, and mount some disinfectant foggers on top. If it took then longer than a week, I would be disappointed.So basically they took their top secret automated personnel murder robot and swap the mini gun for a spray. They didn’t even try to make this thing not threatening.This can be done in less than a week. None of it's new or novel. Infact, it's common enough that quite a lot of the parts can be bought prebuilt or reused.I have used galil products extensively. I generally prefer AMC, but also have used many industrial products from Rexroth, Siemens, Rockwell, eetc.Depends entirely on application, price point, source power, etc. If you're really into the motion control algorithms themselves you can write your own position controller in C (or use generated code for a given target with Matlab simulink) and leverage an off-the-shelf amplifier.Edit:Just reread your post - This is for stepper motors? Gosh, there's not a lot of control theory in a stepper motor, sounds like you're mostly looking for a library in whatever language you work with to generate the motion profiles.Delta Tau Power PMAC. Programming language is easy, pretty basic object oriented script language. Motion programs or "PLCs" with the same language, with some restrictions (can't call motion commands in a PLC program basically).I've been a PMAC programmer for over a decade, so I could droll on and on, but here are the big features:Advanced servo algorithms, all the knobs you could want (there is also a "simple" PID servo algorithm as well)Lots of filtering options for vibration suppression (nth order low pass and notch filtering, trajectory pre filtering, etc)Motor commutation at the controller (if you want, or if the drive doesn't handle it, like with linear amplifiers). Can do things like phase advancing/field weakening, etccustomizable encoder conversion tables. Literally anything can be a feedback source, not just encodersDon't want to use the built in algorithms of need to do something more unique? Write your own servo or phase routines in C, C code generation area is built into the IDE, which is based on Visual Studio, makes getting used to PMAC development familiar to most programmersservo tools for each loop (position, velocity, current loop if doing direct PWM drive control, cascaded servo loops, cross coupled gantry servo gains, etc)customizable clocks (phase, servo, real time interrupt, etc)basically unlimited flexibility in coordinate system configuration, and number of coordinate systems (128 or 256, I forget)Motion programs are coordinate system agnostic (if you have multiple XYZ coordinate systems, you can call the same motion program, no need for multiple programs)write your own event driven programs in the C area (position capture, real time interrupt, etc)Dedicated forward and inverse kinematics programming area for controlling custom linkage setups (delta, scara, 5 or 6 axis, or anything else really. If you've got the math nailed down, you can code it in PMAC)XY2-100 and SL2-100 support for controlling galvosservo/stepper drive commands can be +/-10V, step and direction, direct PWM, motion networks (EtherCAT, MACRO)position and torque compensation to increase accuracy by an order of magnitudefire-on-position outputs, armed at the gate, so output is synced down to single encoder tickwide range of encoder support (quadrature, sin/cos, ever absolute protocol I've ever come across, including the elusive Japanese protocols like Yaskawa)I2T protection for when the drive doesn't have it (some linear amps)Runs Debian Linux in parallel with the PMAC kernel. The Linux side is completely opened up, you can do whatever you wantThere's plenty more I probably missed but here's the manual. It's a ferrari, it came out of the CNC world. Applications can be either super simple or wildly complex. I live in the wildly complex space (semiconductor manufacturing, custom robotics, additive manufacturing, precision machine tool, like nanometer and picometer level stuff)Read more in the manual. Happy to answer any questionshttps://assets.omron.com/m/2c1a63d391d6bfa3/original/Power-PMAC-Users-Manual.pdfEdit: wow I formatted that horribly the first timeThere are a lot of options and some are extremely specialized. Often the motor and controller are speced together to ensure compatibility (current / voltage, brushless / stepper/ servo, etc).I've worked with ones intended to control individual motors, but the most complex ones are designed to drive entire robot arms. Robot controllers from fanuc support synchronized motion across the arm's native 6dof in addition to extra optional axes.The control language is going to vary from manufacturer to manufacturer. Most support CAN, usb, etc. Some offer ladder logic gui control interfaces, others require raw programming (often in c).Generally you'll get position control, velocity control, impedance control, torque control, homing using current /limit switch/etcAs an example, here is a manual from Rockwell Automation: https://literature.rockwellautomation.com/idc/groups/literature/documents/rm/motion-rm002_-en-p.pdfPage 73 has motion instructions. Is there an industry wide standard set of motion commands/instructions? Is there a reliable and popular controller that implements them?Each company's motion controllers generally have their own API, and there's not so much standardization.You could look at the CiA 402 profile standard, which is part of CANopen and Ethercat. There are various commercial implementations in motor controllers/drivers. They often don't adhere fully to the standard though, so off-the-shelf interoperability between brands is not always possible.CiA 402 series: CANopen device profile for drives and motion control: CAN in Automation (CiA)There's some support for using it with ROS:Cia402 Driver — ros2_canopen 0.0.1 documentationGalil is great if you want good pricing, quick turnaround and the ability to use servos and steppers on the same built in amplifier (43547 amp.) configuration is easy.I'm just going to do two things:Note that one of those companies has a word in its name that is like "veins" and the other is SiemensShow myself outi don't think that there is a trivial off the shelf solution for custom robots. there's a few things that may help though:siemens has technology packages for different kinematics. technically, their (larger) PLCs are capable of driving up to 127 (i believe) axes synchronously.beckhoff's twincat also has modules for inverse kinematics, but from what i've seen they're only for relatively simple kinematics.i don't think that there's a silver bullet for custom robot arms. both of the options above aren't cheap either...One option is a Siemens 840d controller. This is the highest end Siemens cnc / plc offering and it is very common for big custom machines, often considered the most powerful general purpose motion controller on the market. However the learning curve is way steeper than ros in my opinion! They are also insanely expensive.When used to control 6dof robot arms, often on tracks or with complex end effect tooling, the 840d replaces the on board motion controller from the robot vendor. This is most commonly implemented with kukas (also German). An example would the carbon fiber layup machines that make the 787, where the robot axes, ground track, and dozens of tape dispense lanes are all interpolated together!A relative newcomer to 6dof arm control is beckhoff and their twincat motion control. With the right kinematics package they can do similar 'basic' 6dof+ setups. It is not nearly as powerful as the 840d, but beckhoff has a free development environment and can run on any Intel box with windows. As long as the drives talk over ethercat (which ros also supports) they can be controlled. The learning curve is still steep, especially if you start with no plc experience, but I think it is easier to self teach because the environment is more open. This is probably the best choice for you.In both cases, arms often need to be modified to add output encoders to all of the joints. Robot arms are repeatable, not accurate, so additional encoders are needed for good cnc control.One final thing to keep in mind is that the standard industrial approach for this type of robot control is to generate gcode offline, while the controller is just responsible for traversing the path as accurately as possible. The controller can make slight 3d corrections to joints to offset the path, but broader kinematic decisions (elbow orientation, etc) are made by the cam software offline.Let me know if you have any more questions. I spent ten years in custom aerospace tooling working on these controllers, and sometimes robot arms.There’s Synthiam ARC for a plug’n’play approachCan you give some description of what process is being automated, and a link to an example of a machine that would work for you, with some comments about how it could be more tailored to your application? And what is your budget?I am a big fan of build over buy, it's generally harder and more risky but at the end of the day you get exactly what you want. It depends on how long you plan on using that machine as there will always be an R&D cost that you need to recover, and if it's just one machine for you instead of 1,000 machines from a manufacturer. Since you are here asking should you to me I take it that is your preferred way and since yo have said you have modified some machines to be more to your purpose I would build your own.  I think you would want an engineer to build it, to ensure reliability and safety. Custom machines are very expensive, designing your own can be very difficult, usually There's a happy medium of buying something off the shelf and modifying itI‘d suggest that you talk to a controls and automation shop. These sorts of companies do contract work to design production lines for factories of all different sizes. Your job is comparatively small, but I think you could find someone to do the work. That would allow you to tap a deeper well of experience than you could put together hiring a handful of engineers. From the business side, it often takes a different mindset to design a really effective production line than to maintain a really effective production line. You will still need engineers/techs on staff to maintain the equipment, but it will be hard to put together a design group with sufficient experience and that can deliver a working solution in a reasonably short time frame. You don’t need to do automation in house. Focus on your product.Home built machines, appeal to the engineer/tinkerer that's in all of us. It's exciting and challenging and there is no greater satisfaction than when everything runs like clockwork.It will inevitably take longer than planned, unless you have a team of people working on it.It will eat up all of your time, thus you'll be unavailable for other tasks. Perhaps your time is better spent elsewhere in the factory?Usually when a machine is home built, no one accounts for the actual cost of labor hours spent on the machine.If you valued your labor at full burdened shop rates, factoring in overhead and benefits you'll quickly find that the "real" cost to design and build is in the tens of thousands of dollars.Usually when a machine is home built there is no user's manual, no as-built drawing package and no match up of wire numbers to the actual schematics. PLC and ladder logic are not commented and there has been no safety review/approval. This leaves a legacy of issues for which you'll be bad mouthed forever after you leave the company.If you think you can take on all of these tasks, plus machining, plus welding, plus assembly, alignment software design and debug before your boss loses patience with you, then by all means do so.And when the machine breaks down at midnight on a weekend, you'll be the one getting frantic phone calls because the line is down.Based on your description of machine requirements, it sounds like something that can be readily purchased provided you find the right/reliable vendor.Pneumatics are really fun and relatively easy. But it's still a big project and not cheapYeah of course.You need a piston, maybe a pump for your piston, and something to control when to extend-retract.As long as what you’re doing is not super dangerous then just have fun strapping things together.This is a guy who is not a engineer but is pretty good at fucking around https://youtu.be/MAPumW_wYKc?si=GH-BewrngvwKgxNeThis video describes some different linear actuators if you want some idea of what you could use https://youtu.be/UVTDMO7rlhs?si=QHDuZZ2mO9zpAyavThe pneumatics side of things is pretty plug and play (check out the schematics software that smc has on their website) and depending on your metalworking skills the machineside should be doable. I think you can help yourself a lot by using plug and play systems like Boikon and metalstrutI work in manufacturing and I used to design automated equipment. If it's any amount complex check out like equipment or some other 3rd party seller of used equipment. Time is money and equipment needs to be validated and robust downtime could cost you alot.If you’ve already worked with and reconfigured similar machines, you’re probably in a good spot to build your own, as long as you can find and piece together the right parts.Taking off the engineering hat for a minute, though, there are a few business-side things to think about:How long will it take to design and build? Can your operation afford the downtime?A custom solution could end up costing more than an off-the-shelf option.It sounds like what you’ve been doing already involves some manual effort. Will the new setup actually save enough time and labor to justify the investment? There’s a chance the custom route ends up being more costly overall.Depending on the size of your operation, bringing in a full-time engineer might be overkill. You’ve already shown you can handle modifications yourself, maybe hiring a tech as needed would be more practical.No manuals, insurance, or warranties with a custom machine. Any issues will have to be fixed in-house, which could eat into your overhead.I like the idea of optimizing processes, but I always ask: is custom better? Could the same result be achieved with combining what’s already out there?Happy to chat more if you want. Just shoot me a DM.I'd recommend Fusion especially if you're a student.Whilst others might be easier to pick up, Fusion is pretty intuitive and powerful. It's also got really good integration for manufacturing.Has anyone tried onshape? Is it any goodYou could just start with tinkercad just so you get an idea of 3D modelling. Then you can move on to Fusion360 like within a week. Fusion is easy to pickup and you can find a lot of tutorial on youtube.i found this playlist helpfulhttps://youtube.com/playlist?list=PLHEouj-sdEJEm_xextUwnfhRJEdUs2hn4&si=a0G_3P7c10qtnlS5Also you could practice using this bookhttps://zlib.pub/book/autodesk-fusion-360-exercises-200-practice-drawings-for-fusion-360-and-other-feature-based-modeling-software-7jm9rmualfg02nd on fusion, if you ever get very into it and want to move to something more professional but still familiar you can switch to inventory, from there you'll be familiar enough with cad that you could easily swap to solid works.Fusion360what do you want to do exactly? fusion is cool but does not support simulationFusion hands down! That’s mainly what we teach people that are past the simplicity of TinkerCAD but don’t want to pay for a professional program. You can download our free book at CADclass.org if you’d like :)I have professional experience with Creo, NX and Catia. The easiest to learn and use was Creo Elements Direct Modelling. That answers your questiin, but I can't recommend it because you will be learning a program that hardly anyone uses anymore."...says company which makes robotics and automation."Haha. I tend to think big companies are more subtle, but you're probably right. One of our website's recent headlines: Metal belts are driving robotics industry growth, says metal belts companyThat list doesn't look like anything to me.Where is:Boston Dynamics.FanucKukaABBFestoAdeptAnd I dont think "Schunk" makes robot, just grippers etc, right?The big name brands (fanuc, kuka) all only use motor encoders (resolvers?) on their industrial robot arms. This is why industrial robots have really high repeatability (for the same payload) but not necessarily high accuracy.To achieve high absolute accuracy, companies can modify the arms to add secondary encoders on the output, but this also requires completely replacing the control system. Here is an example whitepaper: https://electroimpact.com/WhitePapers/2013-01-2292.pdf*my knowledge is from ~2018 when kuka was pushing encoders + Siemens for this situation and fanuc was pushing a solution that involved using an external laser tracker to close the position loop. I am uneducated about other brands.Edit to answer your homing question : most industrial robots have physical markings you can align at each joint to put them in a rough home position, but there is an external calibration routine done at the factory that is more precise. Encoder position and rollover count is stored during power off.For highend robots likely both. You want motor position for motor control and FOC and you want joint position because that is the closest to its real world position.Check out how this guy did it: https://hackaday.com/2021/03/19/robot-arm-achieves-amazing-accuracy-with-just-servos/I imagine it is whichever side sees higher rpm (typically motor side). This is because you can get more accurate position datain DIY models... after the gearbox, measuring the actual angle. in fancier machines... both to control slop and watch for missed steps.13" SCARA designed by us at Elite Engineering Corp. First stage is a pin feeder, which orients the parts vertically. Second stage drills out debris from the hollow center. Third stage checks that the center hole is correct depth.Nearly every component is completely designed, fabricated, and assembled in house.Nice looking cell! I am an integrator and we use a lot of Epson's SCARA robots. I'm interested in how much your SCARA cost to set up. what are you guys using for a controller on this cell? I'd also really like to know what you sold this system for, always fun to see how our pricing compares to others.Were in Connecticut where are you guys based out of?Interesting process. Do you have a pic of the pin before and after? Curious to see that the workcell actually does.Also, wouldn't it be more efficient to load the first machine while the second machine is working (instead of one feeder moving across all the machines)?What was the ROI like?This is cool, congrats. Now, is it the whole machine? This looks like a 6-7 months project, why 18? Also, why not use of the shelf scara?I don't know about how universities can fill this void without having Professors being more aware of the market needs and adapting their courses to that.Still, there are many online courses on C++ and overall robotics topics that are decent enough for you to try something in your own. Try looking for some repos in GitHub to contribute to as well! It will help build your CV.For PLCs though, I think that is more expensive to learn by yourself, because of software licenses and equipment costs. I hope someone proves me wrong though :)Nothing is recession proof. That’s just the reality of itDo you know about Robot Arms? Do you think the controller for Robot Arm is same at the PLC? This company, Mujin(from Japan) is definitely not the standard, but it seems like they are selling this controller separately? Idk I would have to contact them to know about this. I also don't know about the standards Kuka, ABB, and other Robot Arm companies follow.PLC is not hard(it's deceptive, it can look easy, but it's not), please look at Codesys. The real pain in the ass is the debugging whatever janky code or logic you'll write. I'm in Germany in Master, and I've got PLC programming in Uni, but honestly it's very hard to learn everything in 1 semester, but I saw this course and I thought it's a good place to begin https://learn.realpars.com/collections/PLC-programmingSLAM is not an easy algorithm either, you can learn an entire semester and only learn the basics, again deceptively looks easy, but it's not.Perception is a very new field, don't be surprised if it's bleeding edge, many don't know what they are doing. Even the top AI experts burn out trying to solve it, c.f. Andrej Karpathy leaving Tesla and the entire AI codebase hit rock bottom as he was the only one coding the perception/AI stack according to Musk.C++, I think it's more to do with how good of a code you produce rather than if you know syntax, I don't think it takes much to know syntax but to produce good code needs knowing algorithms, and extensive experience in the industry.My suggestion as someone who is struggling to graduate the Robotics program. Take 1 path and stick to it, don't give a fuck about recession, you are gonna get fired anyway, if you are mediocre in all, you will be the 1st to be fired, if you are expert in 1, you might get fired but at least you will be the 1st to be hired by the competitor if you apply for jobs again.It depends on the niche/ industry. My company has a Greenfield / new construction side, and an after sales / modifications side.Greenfield constructions will definitely slow during a recession. Upgrades and optimizations will skyrocket during a recession.I’d bet that projects with new robots will slow, but retooling older robots will be more common.One of my companies, Reasonable Robot Repair, basically has this issue with new hires and we end up training them on this exact stuff for a few months. Most of their problems can be fixed with a phone call or two, but when it comes to programming plcs and c++, you just gotta take the time to learn it. It isn’t that difficult, just daunting.I think you’re relatively correctly in terms of industry vs academia, though good universities do teach C++, SLAM/localization, and learning for perception. I’d also add computer vision in that category. You may have to seek out these classes, and the description doesn’t always match. These are super hot topics in robotics that have been around for a while.But honestly, students ought to be looking at job descriptions and ensuring they have the necessary skills and qualifications to get a job when they graduate. It will take years and years to get deep knowledge in these areas, sure, but you just need to know enough to get your foot in the door. I bet your college offers classes in:cppmachine learningcomputer vision(possibly) SLAM, touched on in part of a course like optimal control & estimation, motion planning, etc.SpaceX, Blueorigin and NASA are hiring robotics majors. May I suggest you also learn ROS. Also you might look in the drone industry as it is booming. Largest is in Silicon Valley. Space and Drones are recession proof. DOD is also investing in USV and UGV so lots of opportunity in defense.Have a sensor that tracks the number of garments produced and when a garment is finished have it put into a container where the weight is tracked.Each garment completed should be weighed and tracked, and then at the end of the day the total output should be weighed to make sure the same amount of material which was finished and weighed individually meets up.You can fake waving over a light beam sensor, but unless they want to put in weights or other materials they can't fake adding weight to the final output total. If there's a weight discrepancy, that's a pretty good indicator that an item produced didn't make it into the final "done box".What does the last point in the production line look like? Without that info it’s hard to say how best to track items going through itLike the other commenter said we need to know what the stages actually look like. If it was for example red colored single shirts moving along a conveyor then you could have a simple camera program that checks the number of distinct red objects that pass. But again completely dependent on what is actually being done hereOh hey something I have expertise in. I'm a BI manager in robotics, but previously I was at an industrial laundry company doing similar. They had used tags on each garment with scanners aimed at them as they moved along the track on their hangers. Those were then uploaded to a sql database for tracking. They were scanned at each step of the process so you know where each piece is at any point.Look into SPI software , Siemens senseye or factory talkI don't know if this is possible with your setup or not but I think it will be the easiest to implement- you put two basic sensors far apart but placed such that the gap is a multiple of the distance between the garments. Essentially, both sensors will get ticked at the same time as clothes move on the line and we register only when we have simultaneous ticks. An individual cannot fool the system as the sensors are far apart, and it will be difficult for two people to tick both the sensors synchronouslyAre there any automation machines in your factory? An Industry standard for automation controls used is PackML, which can have shift production rates and OEE pulled from the controllers via the local network. That solution would require a total rework if not already implemented, but there's a lot of compatible software that it opens up. Most detailed and automated reports you'll get would come from here.We have 3 counts on total production for redundancy. The second is an automatic label with a unique code that is printed on every final product, which is scanned by production employees in to a google spreadsheet. I have it automated to display shift and rolling weekly counts, which are indeed visible from an app on my phone. Final count is by the warehouse employees who do inventory every day.Our most accurate system is the second one - machine counts fail when the product comes out bad and has to be removed, and for some reason our warehouse employees can't count consistently.i only have experience with Yaskawa, so i cant realy give spesific instructions. I have done similar projects to Yaskawa robots with the old nx100 controller.This is my workflow for installing pre configurated industrial robots. It is very general but also extremely important stuff.get rid of all unnessesary stuff, meaning the Siemens plc, Beckhoff plc, and all the useless(for you) wiring. They are usually used to controll the full cell, and not really related to the robot controller. Find a ABB manual that explains the robot IO.s to you, and move all usefull to those.install the robot. So before starting the robot, make sure it is secured. You dont want to break anything by ripping the robot from ground.turn everything on, it will give you some errors, fix them. For example your controller batterys are most likely drained, there might not be anything configurated to your controller.Get backup of the similar robot configuration from somewhere. Usually my local Yaskawa sends them for you if you just ask for them, no clue if ABB does that. Point of clean or similar backup is that you dont need to figure out all the random configurations made by the previous dude.This is the fun part, configure your own stuff, like warning lights, grippers and sencors.And for the "connecting to robot controller" error, read this: https://www.robot-forum.com/robotforum/thread/40971-irc5-1600-connecting-to-the-robot-controller/If memory serves, there's a 12v(?) NiCd battery that acts as essentially a bios battery for the whole system. I remember some ABB training I took went to great lengths to make sure we understood to keep this in good condition. So my first thing to do on an old system would be to find it and make sure it's charged/replaced. If everything else looks like it should be alive, that's where I'd start. Good luck, try not to mame yourself ;)Have you contacted Abb directly? Believe it or not, manufacturing robotics companies have support that can guide you through things like this and even help diagnose and offer replacement components, if required.It looks like an IRC5-Controller. First we need to know the status of the Main-Computer itself. It seems like the panel is unable to connect because the main controller is not responding or the connection itself is broken. Which LEDs are lighting up / flashing on the main computer? Is there any red LED lighting or flashing? If the controller is fine, do you have the possibility to download ABB RobotStudio and connect via Ethernet to the Service-Port?I think the problem with your question is that you are implicitly using a very narrow definition of robot. I work in a robotics company and my tools are Pytorch and Tensorflow.Amusement Industry, everything is life-safety so safety rated PLCs from Allen Bradley or Siemens wrap around everything acting as monitors and safe motion enables. Robots themselves either use a PLC, industrial GPC, or something vendor specific I can't talk about.'pause' and 'resume' aren't available?what skills should an aspiring roboticist demonstrate in their portfolio pieces if they wish to optimize their competitive edge?Building robots?Think about what a robot is and how it is built and you will answer the question for yourself. Break it down into its subsystems: mechanical, power, sensors, actuators, control, etc. Other systems that aren't as necessary in all robots are things like AI or computer vision so you could look into them.Robotics is such a wide field where you can apply a lot of different types of engineering too it, it is a good mix of electrical, mechanical and software engineering and often a very mixed team of engineers work on robots. So pretty much learning a mix of those will put you in a good position.I would recommend learning things from websites like 507movements for mechanical motion thought processing. Use services like LinkedIn Learning (if you have a .edu email it's free) or w3schools to get some coding experience. Grab a cheap 3D printer like the elegoo setups and grab a seeduino Xiao or Jetson nano or something. Buy a cheap RC car that you can scrap for a frame and motors. Reuse the same materials, and make several projects.Focus on learning endpoint control, kinematics, inverse kinematics, and how to create Force diagrams/ pen+paper simulations.Learn to combine the 2. Unfortunately this will only teach you the future of robotics. The history of robotics or landing a job working on industrial robotic arms will require you to use old methods like PLC software from Allen-Bradley or Siemens. Moist of them don't even use structured text, so learning to code is useless for those. You'll have to learn to create ladder diagrams for that.Integrating AI into robotic systems is my primary field of study, integrating both into everyday human life is my secondary field of study. Coding AI to control ladder diagrams in PLC systems really sucks. But, companies won't just update their systems and old industrial arms are only $2-10k each, but they use PLC systems to control hydraulics and pneumatics systems as well.DM me if you want more information. I hope this helps.My 2 cents. Start with robotic simulations, because if you do a physical build and something isn't working, you have to figure out if it's a bug in the software, or the hardware. My robotics class used Robotic Operating System (ROS) and Gazebo.Code, software, professional software.If you want a robotics job that is not boring you need be more proficient at c++ than cs majors.Don't fool yourself that connecting libraries together is teaching you what you need to know.Read and understand the probabilistic robotics - ThrunAnd implement stuff from stratch. UKF, slam, etc.Then try it on real hardware and spend the countless hours learning the subtleties of real systemsOne thing to keep in mind is a company rarely looks for a person who do every part of the robot.It's good to have try at a hobby level each parts like mechanical design, electronic, software engineering and control systems.But in general it's important to have a solid experience/formation on one of these fields and to be specialized in it.The ability to identify manual processes that can be automatedI would say math, algorithms, data analyses...etc. to complement the software. Seems things are moving towards computer-vision and optimisation problems.3rd year EE Major hereThese are the kind of questions I think about all the time, so interested in what people who have gone down this path have to say.Research the companies that do the work you would like to do and then ask them what skills they are looking for.If you do not have those skills, get them.Sell yourself like nobodies business.Profit!It seems like it should be a great career to get into given the trends to replace people with bots. If you do not already do your own robots already I would start a DIY robot yesterday.There are some interesting MOOCs (massive open online course) for robotics. Also reading the « bibles » of robotics might help you (from Peter Corke for instance). The Peter Corke’s mooc is no longer available but you can still find the archives for it.Programming is quite essential if you want to find a job in commercial robotics as it is the easiest way to enter there (they need devs with understandings in robotics).But most important factor for robotics is controls (e.g. feedback loops) and culture (path planning algorithms, ROS, etc...). I think with this knowledge you would be able to find a job in the field you are looking for.Learn robotic control systems. The mechanical side is obviously very useful, but it's a huge help to know how to make things move. Being able to program should get you in the door. Which form of robotics are you interested in?If your goal is to get into consumer robots I would start with... building your own consumer robots.If you can build something that is impressive you can get funding to build your own company. If you can't and/or that isn't for you, that is a hell of a step in the door for getting a job at a relevant company.I currently work with a German firm that makes robotics for aerospace manufacturing. We mostly use Siemens control systems. If you're interested in industrial, funac kuka and others use very similar control systems. BD is a whole other monster. There are a lot of subsystems they use/created to solve the vast amount of problems they are tacklingLearn embedded programming or something useful like machine vision or some other advanced processing. Of course like others have said.....start building your own bots. Worst case you can put it on your resume and you'll gain knowledge you'd never get in schoolIt depends how you hook up the gripper. Is there rg2 an io-link device? Really, it depends if it's hooked into the robot controller/robot field bus. Or if you contact it directly to the plc. If it connects to the robot then you will need to trigger done internal variable with mxautomation (in said I don't have any direct experience with mxautomation), or of you connect it directly to your plc then you can just trigger it using PPC code.A quick look at their job postings shows that they likely use Catia, Nx, or Solidworks on the Atlas team.https://bostondynamics.wd1.myworkdayjobs.com/en-US/Boston_Dynamics/job/Waltham-Office-POST/Senior-Mechanical-Engineer_R1355It's difficult to talk about CAD software without talking about budget. Good CAD is very expensive. Are you looking for something for hobby/student/non-commercial work? Then there's a wide selection of cheap or free versions of high-end CAD for that. Shapr3D is great (and a shout out to Rhino too), but it's not classic parametric CAD that's used for the more mechanical/engineering work. For that, SolidWorks or (less so) Fusion360 are good, you can also look at Solid Edge or OnShape, or a few others, take your pick. But when it comes to paying for a commercial license, it's another story. Then you may find yourself dragging your sorry ass to FreeCAD/Ondsel... You can definitely get "similar results" with those too, but at the cost of a lot more frustration. Maybe better to pay the money, and in that case, Fusion 360 is probably the most affordable, but by no means the best.Btw., just by looking at the new electric Atlas, I can tell it was produced by a diverse team of designers and engineers. Some would be industrial designers, working on the visual aesthetics, surfaces, and overall shapes. Others are engineers, who will refine that into a rigorously tested machine, and work with the robotics and electrical engineers. They likely use different software packages for each job. There are also user interface designers, human-machine interaction experts, and so on. The results are much more about the team, the pipeline, and the workflow, than any particular CAD software. If you can't replicate that then it probably doesn't matter that much which software you pick. Atlas is a sort of symphony of robotics. Many people buy a violin, few of them learn to play it well, and even fewer join an orchestra, and get to play in a symphony.I'd bet good money they use either Solidworks or Fusion360, there aren't many other options for professional manufacture/design work.Check out the firmware for delta 3d printers. Marlin and what have you, they have already worked out the math on this.If your only goal is to generate a high level trajectory (i.e. ignoring inverse kinematics, motor controllers, etc.), then there are several different methods that can be used. Graph based approaches have two main problems: building the graph and traversing it. Graph building approaches can range anywhere from discretizing an operation space (e.g. 2D grid of equally spaced squares) to randomly sampling (e.g. probabilistic road map). There are even some machine learning based approaches to building graphs as well. Depending on your goals, different graph traversing strategies could be used such as Dijkstra's algorithm or A*. Graph based approaches can be efficient but won't always be able to produce the most optimal solution.You could also use an optimization based planner such as TrajOpt or BeBOT (shameless plug for my current research). These approaches optimize a parameterized polynomial to produce an optimal solution with provable safety bounds. These approaches do typically require more processing time and a decent initial guess since they only converge locally. However, when used properly, these types of solutions can provide real time trajectory generation with guaranteed optimality and safety.Please let me know if you are interested in hearing more about the specifics of any of these approaches!All patents are public information.The rest is corporate secrets.You could ask the same from any company from Siemens to Apple.I believe you have to first publish academic papers in top journals (control, robotics, optimization, computer vision, estimation) in order to get into Boston Dynamics. Just look at their employees, must have PhDs if not M.S. with high level of research. I'm sure they have some great patents and constantly push the state of the art. However in the corporate community, not everything has to be open access as in the academia. I guess that's every top tech company's secret weapon to get funding and revenue. Also, Boston Dynamics constantly hires new grads, so they are very much aware of academic research and know how much of that can be leveraged into actual technology.Mark Raibert had been a professor at the MIT for 9 years. He wrote some classic books about his one-legged hopper bot (which is the basis of all his legged robots)And other forks who joined BDI has published quite a bit of related papers BEFORE joining them. Go look for themConsidering they are doing cutting edge work in a field that is highly relevant for military applications, there is probably a significant national security consideration for all published work.Yes to all....You’re so close to being done. You’ll regret not finishing down the road.There will be plenty of job offers once you’re done school too. The salary may not be any different, but I’d recommend finishing school.cute! we're gonna need a videoReminds me of the super extra model clear path built:https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=SRenvqxL6bI&t=63sAre those submersible pumps in the liquor???Next time look into peristaltic pumps ;)Newly alcoholic here just want to say its been the most welcoming community I have ever been a part of. I found out there are these support groups everywhere I think they call them "bars". Everyone is just so happy and cheerful 😊Nice! We did something similar for a machine design course in university. Except the professor wanted to add several design features to the requirements making it more involved than us college students wanted. A few things the “customer” would love like an ice dispenser, shaker, stirrer, and self rinse cycle! Thanks for this! Brought back some good (and stress inducing) memories :)Look for a Siemens motor. Huge selection, but very expensive. How big a motor do you need?Please forgive my ignorance. When you say "resolver", is that like an encoder?I am senior robotics software and control engineer working on project involving autonomous vehicle. How I got into this field? I happened to be working in the company that just happened to start such project. And since my background in control engineering I was obvious choice to move onto this new project.I also have been sitting at the other side of the table interviewing candidates for software engineering position. I have rejected candidates with strong resumee because it was only good looking resumee without candidate actually having required skills. What I value the most is how well you would fit into the team and whether the team would be more functional with you or without you. Good knowledge of vehicle dynamics is a plus. Also good understanding and capacity in abstract thinking. If you are strong in these and have basic understanding on how to implement your ideas in code then you would be strong candidate on my mind. I personally do not care about minor details. Be strong in working with problems. I would recommend to have a resumee that would reflect that well.Now, when we come to what you should learn to be more suitable, as mentioned, control engineering would be a plus. Also focus on having crasp on different interfacing methods and how to divide the system into blocks. ROS is a good (altough we do not use it as it has failed to deliver any significant benefit) - it enforces abstraction. C and C++ are mostly used. Python we have only used for quick prototyping.I am very much in the same position with the same goal!I tried and I gave up. I too have a similar background as you. ROS, C++/Python, Pytorch experience etc. I made it to the interviews, but failed the insane coding challenges.As someone that has done a few interviews. It is nice to have something you personally went in depth in and can talk about.A pet peeve is seeing an impressive resume with a lot of buzz words, but then it turns out they didn't do much on a team project.You can learn surface level techniques in a couple days, that's not really the important part of working on a team that is trying to build a novel technologyHello,I graduated from Conestoga's Mechanical Engineering Technology, Robotics and Automation program, and have been employed in automation for more than 10 years now. I did several co-op terms at college, mostly programming, servos, CNC, PLC's, micro controllers and the like, and this experience got me a job as a conveyor technician for a large automotive supplier. That led to a job as a Robotics Integrator, mobile robots and ASRS, and now I am a Project Engineer for Yaskawa Motoman, commissioning 6 axis robot arms mostly in material handling applications.The good news is there is TONS of work in this field. Recruiters contact me nearly everyday with new opportunities and all the contractors I know are busy and have their choice of work. Keep in mind that I don't have a degree, just a diploma, which was excellent value as it only took me two years of class to complete plus one year of co-op. I would recommend it.The thing I have found with automation, is it is divided into ecosystems. Generally, in North America you will have Allen Bradley with Device Net, and all the Rockwell Automation drives. Europe is mostly Siemens with Profibus / Profinet / Sinamics drives. Asia its Mitsubishi with CC-Link. Then you have the other stuff, sensors, valves, safety (Omron, SICK, IFM, Peppler Fuchs, Festo, Keyence, Banner). Usually when you get a project, the ecosystem is decided for you, the customer already has existing Siemens equipment with Sick sensors and wants to stick with what they know.It can be difficult to learn a new ecosystem. It's not like the Raspberry Pi or Arduino where the stuff is open source and there is a huge hobbyist community publishing code and how-to's. The software and hardware is expensive (perhaps very expensive), and its all commercial, so its copyrighted and support is provided through paid contracts. Having said that the documentation is excellent and complete (if not overly complete).So to answer your questions:The best resource would be the provided documentation. Get a 2nd hand Mitsubishi PLC from e-bay, and download the documentation. Then read it, all of it. Be the guy who has read the manuals. Then play with the PLC. Get it to control your Christmas lights, or your home alarm system, and become a Mitsubishi expert (Mitsubishi is my favorite btw).I am also looking to eventually attend grad school. I would probably do Computer Science with A.I., as I think that is where the future of all this will be. Currently the robots are stupid, they have to be told in brutal detail what to do and how to do it, and this limits the number of applications. If this deep-learning A.I. stuff takes off the number applications for robotics will explode, and I want to be a part of that. But if I were you, I wouldn't jump into grad school right away. Work for a few years, gain some experience, meet some people in the field, and understand the real world problems and applications first.If you don't want to do research then no. Consider for every one person developing technology, there are likely 100 applying that technology. This means that the opportunities are greater for application.I will guess you are in your early twenties. So you might have a forty year career ahead of you. Whether it was U of T, Waterloo, or UBC won't make a difference when you are forty-five with twenty years experience. They are all excellent schools.YES! They will hire engineers for all sorts of roles. Everything from sales, design, manufacture, testing, commissioning and maintenance. Generally small places will give your a breadth of experience, and the large places more specialized. Work at both if you can.You have strong programming skills so start there! Pick an ecosystem and read the documentation. They all have there own language with different features and tools. For example, the Motoman robots are programmed in a interpreted proprietary basic like language, called INFORM. Most of what you see in PLC's will be ladder logic or structured text. The HMI is usually some kind of proprietary markup (HTML like) language. The rest is .NET (VB.Net or C#) or Java, depending on the customers preferred ecosystem. Don't forget basics common to all languages, things like version control, TCP/IP, unit tests and databases.Anyway, that was longer than I expected. I hope I answered some of you questions and all the best with your career!Rockwell Automation Fair is in Chicago this year, not too far from you. It's one of the biggest automation trade shows in the world, and a good chance to see what opportunities are out there, meet potential employers, and see what's new. It's not a job fair, but I think it would be a very valuable experience.As far as getting a more advanced degree goes, I'd urge you to find a program that won't cost you much and consider it more for personal enrichment. You'll likely come out earning about the same as someone with two years experience, so take the time to learn something that interests you. Use it as an opportunity to live in a completely new place for a while. It's certainly not a requirement, and if you're burned out and ready to start your career, go for it.How far are you from Michigan? A lot of opportunities are available just across the border in an area not far north of Detroit called automation valley. I study PLCs, robotics, and microcontrollers in my university program and companies from that area are grabbing people left and right from my school. A lot of the major names in automation have campuses and headquarters in automation valley.Socket communication. That's how I'm communicating between UR and Cognex right now.The way it works in the manufacturing automation industry is your method 1 via Ethernet/IP. PLCs and industrial robots come with Ethernet/IP protocol enabled hardware and software natively so they're all pretty straightforward to set up. There are ladder logic AOIs available to set up communication between robots and PLCs too, I'm sure your PLC provider can send you one if you ask.I started off as a mechanical design engineer and I knew I really disliked the work, but that I was super interested in robotics (motor control, embedded systems, mobile robot theory, etc), so I just applied to as many jobs that dealt with robots as I could, regardless of location/pay. From there, it wasn't easy to internally switch over to the EE/CS side of things, but it does allow you to work on projects on your own time in those domains and leverage the fact you worked at a robotics company to get a position in those fields wherever else.Getting the first one, in my opinion, was the hardest oneNo offense intended, but asking to enter one of the most competitive fields while expecting the company to pay for your education is a big request.It’s typically only feasible if you have exceptional talent with proven results, know someone in a high position within the company, or are already in grad school working on research that aligns with the company’s technical goals.Start a hobby project that you’re passionate about and compliments the type of position you want to apply to. Create a website showcasing this project and put it on your resume. This will be an impressive thing to discuss in an interview and might set you apart from the thousands of other people looking for an internship or beginning role in robotics.I wish you luck! 🦾Source: Senior Robotics EngineerMost of the robotics engineers I know, including myself, got the position through one of two routes: internship -> full time or grad school project sponsor -> full time.There's smart dude-ets too.But secondly... I know low pay sucks. But there's an old saying, "I'd rather be at the bottom of a ladder I want to climb, than halfway up one I don't want to climb..."I did a lot of robotics stuff in college/high school. FIRST Robotics competition, etc. Built robots as a hobby was part of an underwater robotics club (MATEROV,RoboSub) in college. Did a undergrad thesis in robotics. Now I work at a university/oceanographic institute doing AUV research for the Navy.It's my first job. It doesn't pay well (60k HCOL) but is very interesting technically and hands on (not a total desk job) and helps me get experience to level up for my next job. I also live at my parents so that helps.There are better paying robotics job though but you do need experience.I would say for you, search hard for any robotics opportunity available at your university (working in a lab with robotics or adjacent research) or otherwise. If not robotics maybe look for things like computer vision, graphics, aerospace work, electronics, machine learning. Lots of pillars of robotics in multiple disciplines.If you cannot obtain opportunities through your university. Try to do your own personal projects. If you need help this subreddit has a discord. Lots of communities online if you need peers to work with/ask for help.If you have no university do a personal project. With just a PC you can play around with robot operating system (ROS), simulators (webots, etc), path planning, etc. If you have more cash build something. I've always though building a self-balancing robot would be a cool project with a lot going on (IMU, microcontroller, 2 motors). You could probably find steps on Instructables.Stick any project or research on your resume and apply to jobs. Should be very helpful.I’ve read some of your follow up questions.There is no “do exactly this and it will work” answer, stop trying to find it.Also, if you bring that attitude to work, you. Will. Not. Succeed.I got into industrial automation and work with robots every day. I did this with an EE degree and taking some r/PLC electives.Robotics is still a fairly young industry, so there's not really a standard degree that employers will expect you to have if you want to work in robotics as a field. Computer engineering will be fine. Other degrees that will also work include, but are not limited to:Electrical EngineeringMechanical EngineeringComputer ScienceAeronautical EngineeringMathPhysicsMany of the "technology" degrees (the exact names may vary from university to university, but think Electrical Engineering Technology)More important than your specific degree is your choice of internships and first few jobs. At least in the US, when you're fresh out of college with one of the degrees listed above, you'll have a fairly easy in with most tech companies, regardless of their specific industry. Once you start working, however, it gets harder to move into different industries because your resume will start to look more specialized. For example, about a year ago I was finally hired into the manufacturing automation industry, but it took about 2 years of talking with my preferred employer before they decided to hire me. This was because my first job out of college was mostly business/accounting software (I'm a CS major), and they were looking for experience with PLCs, etc. Just be intentional about where you work during and right after college, and you'll be fine.Definitely, however you should get involved robotics clubs at your university if you really wanna get into it.For sure - I know people coming from all types of backgrounds ( art, architecture, education, engineering, machining) that have gotten into robotics through one avenue or another- CE/CS is a perfectly good way to get in. There are layers of computer science/ hardware and programming at multiple levels from microcontrollers up to machine learning. Check out ROS / ROS-I - there is a lot to do with processing times and refresh rates with inverse kinematic motion planningMechatronics, which is also called mechatronicengineering, is a multidisciplinary branch of engineering that focuses on the engineering of both electrical and mechanical systems, and also includes a combination of robotics, electronics, computer, telecommunications, systems, control, and product engineering.Wikipedia › wiki › MechatronicsI graduated with a degree in Computer Engineering and now am doing a Robotics Master’s degree at a prestigious university. So yes, definitely. I feel like I have an edge with my programming compared to ME’s, but they have the edge with dynamics. Most other robotics students are ME’s, but my university likes diversity in their program.The key I would say is to take robotics classes (feedback control, machine perception, AI/ML) and get involved in a robotics lab. My undergraduate university only had 2 robotics labs, both in ME department. I ended up taking a senior elective feedback controls class my junior year, since I took some junior classes over the summer. This class changed my career because until then I wasn’t interested in robotics or controls. I only took that class because it was recommended by a friend who was 2 years ahead of me. Taking controls allowed me to get on a senior capstone team that had to do a lot with feedback control/robotics and allowed me to get my foot in the door to do some research for one of the robotics labs for 10 hrs/week.It’d also be good to get involved in any competition teams as early as possible. My university did the Mars Rover competition which was a big capstone project, but they allowed juniors and sophomores to help out. Another cool competition that was my capstone project is the AUVSI-SUAS competition.Instead of just asking people, spend a few days (ideally a few weeks if you can manage) reading job ads for robotics positions. Look far and wide - not just positions local to you, but at least around your country, ideally even around the globe. Look at general job aggregator websites (Linkedin, indeed, etc), engineering specific ones, and individual companies that you find via web searches, industry publications, trade events, etc.Keep a list or spreadsheet of the companies you find and note down what additional qualifications & skills they want other than just a CE degree. Go back and update your list periodically throughout your degree, and use it to target your extracurricular development.To be honest I believe it's the best degree one can choose to get into robotics. I entered through Electronic Engineering and it covered a good amount of robotics basics but I had to learn advanced programming after I got my degree, which is something I believe a Computer Engineering degree would have covered.Think about it from this perspective. A robot, is an information system. Take surgical robotics for example. By allowing a robot to work hand-in-hand with a surgeon, it is able to collect data on surgical techniques, patient anatomy, implant placement, and all kinds of other things in a way that has never been possible before. While there are very important mechanical engineering aspects that go into the production of a robot, there’s a hell of a lot of software there too and the more we move into the desire to see more autonomous robotics, possibly driven by advanced-integrated sensors, machine learning, and augmented reality, the software driving the robot is really the star of the show.I was a network admin without a degree for five years, had zero robotics knowledge or experience and was doing well. A friend of mine was doing robotics and convinced me to switch over. I made the jump and I've been a robot programmer/controls engineer for the last 5 years and love it. There is some overlap between the two disciplines and that's helped. I'm not saying don't get a degree in something but I found that automation was far more accessible to new people than I thought it was.my guess would be that linux offers a more open and flexible ecosystem than windows. you need an OS without a graphical interface? no problem. you need a real-time kernel? no big deal either. it's way harder to do these things with windows (or macOS).also packages like ROS were intially developed on linux to run on linux (not sure about the current state of implementation on windows).bu that being said - e. g. KUKA runs their robots on a combination of VxWorks (real-time part) and windows. ABB runs windows CE as a frontend on their teachpanels (on IRC5 controllers). beckhoff PLCs are for the most part soft PLC that run under windows. so yes - it is perfectly possible to run whatever you like on any OS. it's just that linux makes life easier when you're developing as compared to windows.Three main reasons why Linux is by far the most common OS in the robotics academia and industry:Linux is more flexible, in that it lets you do whatever you want with the OS and many more tools are at the programmer's disposal. There are a lot of things that are fiddly to do in windows and MacOS that are easier in LinuxLinux is more lightweight, and is better suited to running on on-board computers with limited space than windows and MacOS. This makes it better suited to run on the robot itself, especially if it's a mobile robot.A lot of software that's very important for robotics work is Linux only. For example, ROS (the robotic operating system) was Linux only until quite recently, and thus everything that was built with earlier versions of ROS is limited to use on Linux systems. Older hardware too, will all be using ROS1 and thus interfacing with it is easier if you are also using Linux.A secret 4th reason: part of why it's the standard is that it's the standard. Sounds dumb, but because it's the thing everyone uses it's very well supported by the community and all things related to robotics are built with it in mind. Taking the path more often travelled just makes a lot of things easier, because it's the conventional thing and it's what people will be expecting.There are a couple of big exceptions to this. The ones that come to mind are education and user interface stuff. Things that are meant to be used by beginers or people who are not roboticists are often either Windows based (because that's what people know) or built in Linux in a way that replicates a windows-like experience (e.g., a front end application for windows that sends commands to a robot who's running Linux)Standard Windows is abysmal for a stable system, forced updates, restarts, installation of windows utilities.A Standard linux will just run for a decade without that shitRobots need to perform time critical tasks called realtime tasks, and for those tasks you need access to the lowest levels of an operating sistem, to the kernel, an you need to be able to strip everything that is not critical to your project off, basically making your custom operating system, and linux enables that because it's open source. That is why Linux dominates the embedded industry, from which robotics is part of.Of course for learning robotics a general purpose operating system will be enough and arguably you could use Windows, but when you try to go and find a job you are required Linux knowledge because it's mandatory and mission critical, and that is the moment when the industry won't wait for you to learn a new operating system. So it makes sense to begin with Linux and stick with it from the beginning.P.S: Linux dominates the world wide web industry also, aditionally Android is built on top of the Linux kernel, and Chrome OS is literally a Linux distribution.Generally you run linux on anything that doesn't require any graphic interface. The performance is just much better, more compatibility across SBCs, plenty of good reasonsThere are several reasons:License:One of the most important PartsOverhead:Windows has another target and offers functionality you do not needCommunity:Heavy use of the terminal, SSH .... are more natrual to linuxSome suggest that a realtime part might be involved. Most of the realtime critical parts i encountered so far are not done with a normal pc cause the hardware is not certified. Often there was no os for these parts at all.Aside from the above Linux requires less resources to run in general than windows (windows 11 seems to want 4gb ram), this will vary depending on if you want gui, and what background processes you want to run, etc. However for robot this means you can use more resources for the software you built or use lower power hardware.If you want to know the math, here’s a great tutorial (if I do say so myself).Is the industry moving to rust or cpp is still the norm?Do they use a robotics simulator at any point?What is generally the most difficult part of implementing a robot by into the workplace?check out some of the papers from the leading Soft Robotics conference, see which unis are generating interesting work. Don't be afraid to get in contact with the author of a paper!Idk about universities but the field is very very young.It's at the stage, I'd say, where a startup with a modicum of success could easily get snatched up by a big engineering firm, and that's be the easiest way to work in the field.Harvard is arguably the best place for it, with George Whitesides (one of the founders of the field), Connor Walsh, Jennifer Lewis, Robert Wood, and others.MIT has Daniela Rus, Stanford has Allison Okimura, University of Washington has some up-and-coming faculty in the area, and I think Georgia Tech and CMU have good groups too (though I can't think of anything off the top of my head).As for job prospects, it's still pretty limited, but Facebook Reality Labs is doing a lot of hiring in the area (maybe as much as everyone else in the industry combined), the Wyss institute at Harvard, Soft Robotics Inc is growing, as is AppHarvest. Otherlab has multiple groups applying soft robotics in various ways, and then there are various biomedical projects with a soft robotics component like Siemens heart catheter.Really happy for you, keep up the good work!Hey, I totally understand the struggle.PM if you need any help/advice with industrial systems, since I mostly work on UAVs.Congrats and keep working hard!What have you been working on?Internship is always a good way to learn engineering. It teaches you engineering hands-on. There is so much to learn out there. The communities are really a good place to learn and share knowledge. Be a part of these communities and help others as well.Congratulations and Good Luck on your journey.Wholesome post. It is always so nice to read and hear happy/success stories like that.Thx for sharing and keep it up!Awesome! If you like learning new things everyday you’re on the right path.What kind of robots would you like to work on? Do you think humanoid robots will become a big part of the field?they always say one of three: mechanical, electrical, or computer engineering.That's pretty much it. All three are necessary for robotics, and most robot teams involve people from all three disciplines. It's impractical if not impossible to become sufficiently versed in all three, or even two of them, over the course of a Bachelors, but you can try at the cost of having no social life. My advice would be to pick one to be your focus/specialization, but also dabble in and at least achieve basic understandings of the other two (If not with elective classes, through hobby robots). I personally recommend CS, since you'll learn how to simulate robotic systems at a high level, whereas ME's and EE's typically learn simulation but mostly without the automation/control element (which is imho the most fun and fascinating part of a robot).It's useful to be acquainted with all three since the decisions you make in your specialization will more often than not be constrained by the other two, and you can expect to work with people from the other two on a regular basis, so it's good to have a basic idea of how those folks think and what their design conventions are.Luckily, all three are broad disciplines that, should your interest shift away from robotics , you'd still have plenty of other career options with a degree in any of them. I was lucky enough to choose CS before I was even interested in robots, and was able to make a horizontal career move into robotics quickly after became evident how boring web development really was (Although it helped that, at the time, I was working for Carnegie Mellon and got free classes with no prereq or application worries).as a Mechanical Engineer who wanted to go into robotics but somehow landed a job in a completely unrelated field, I recommend you go into Computer Science (maybe Computer Engineering), and take a few supplementary courses in dynamics, kinematics, and mechatronics.Also, more important than any of this: get involved in undergrad research with your university's robotics program (and make sure the university has one already established!). This will build your practical knowledge (and help supplement you in the Mechanical side of the house while you get formal training in the AI side--where most of the jobs are).I actually just graduated from Georgia Tech's CS program and I'm coming back this fall for the Robotics PhD program. Small world. :PThe first thing you should do is email someone in the RIM lab and talk to them for a bit. They do most of the robotics work on campus and can give you far more detailed advice than Reddit can.Second, as the other people in the thread say, you really need to be able to do all of ME, CS, and EE. We're one of wider fields of science/engineering. Robot programming is more complex than robot engineering, though, so I'd recommend that you do CS primary and ME and EE on the side. You can pick up the engineering stuff as you go, but the CS stuff is much more difficult.Third, get a research spot in one of the robotics labs. This is fun, incredibly educational, and a major career booster, especially if you go for a PhD. Since it sounds like you're more interested in the physical side of things, I'd recommend talking to Charlie Kemp from the Healthcare Robotics Lab; his lab is more focused on building robots than some of the others.Either way, look me up sometime! My username informs my email pretty well.Personally, I'm a PhD student in Robotics, and I double-majored in Computer Science and Physics, although the physics wasn't particularly relevant to anything. My program's probably fairly close to a 50-50 split between computer scientists and engineers, with occasional other things. Mechanical engineers seem to be more common than electrical engineers, but I might be wrong about that.All three can definitely lead to a career in robotics, so to some degree it's up to you. One thing to consider is what type of robotics you want to be doing. If you're interested in the software side of things (AI, algorithms, etc), for example, then CS might be the way to go. If you're interested in the hardware side of things (dynmaics, controls, etc), then you should go with some form of engineering. If you're not sure but know you want to do robotics, then your best bet is probably just to dabble in a little bit of everything initially and then settle on a specialty. No matter what area you focus on, having knowledge of other areas can be useful.Mechatronics pulls together mechanical, electrical, and computer engineering. It's essentially "robotics" but not in name. Everyone who works on mechatronics works closely with robotics.Computer Science, IMO*, gets you into the most exciting part of robotics: autonomy.*( I work in robotics, and have a degree in CS )I work at a company that builds robots, and there are probably ~100 engineers here who do some flavor of what you'd think of early in the robotics world as "robotics". This includes mechanical design and controls. There are another ~100 who do the support stuff to actually get the parts to move: electrical engineers who design all of the custom control boards and circuitry, software engineers who write code ranging from embedded FPGA engines up to interfaces that engineers and customers use to control our stuff, product designers, human interface designers, and the list goes on.With very few exceptions, everyone who does controls and design has at least an undergrad degree in Mechanical Engineering. I do mechanical and higher level architectural design, and my undergrad and grad degrees are in Mechanical. I took quite a bit of controls and software classes (these were options in the specific path of ME that I picked) plus some imaging and computer vision classes in grad school. The controls engineers typically have PhD's in ME with some heavy focus on analysis and controls.The CS people here focus more on high-reliability communication infrastructure within the devices, the infrastructure upon which the controls algorithms are built, and image processing and analysis. However, we do not do much in the way of advanced path planning or artificial intelligence. These would likely be handled by more CS-leaning people at a company who focuses more on that type of stuff.Feel free to PM me with questions. I went through these same questions not too long ago.Well there are schools that offer degrees specifically in robotics but since that ship has sailed you need to check the curriculum for each discipline. Often a university will place its robotics related courses under one discipline more than the others because of how they perceive robotics.Whichever has the most I'd say go into that one, make sure you take all of the robotics modules in your major and either use the other disciplines' courses for electives or minor in one of themIndustrial servo motors run multiple simultaneous, nested control loops (often pid) and it is common to inject speed and torque 'feed forward' parameters into the inner control loops in order to improve the following accuracy and responsiveness of the position control loop.Creating a 'fake' position control target in order to trick the control loop into being more responsive is definitely not the right way to do what you are asking about!Details:An outer position control loop that compares the actual measured position (maybe from an encoder or scale) to the provided target position, then outputs a speed setpoint that is sent to the next loop. (100-1000hz)A middle speed control loop that compares the actual measured rotor speed (maybe from rotor encoder, tachometer, or voltage feedback) to the provided target speed, then outputs an acceleration setpoint. (~1000hz)The acceleration setpoint is converted to a torque using provided inertial parameters of the mechanical situation, which surprisingly are usually dominated by the rotor inertia.The torque setpoint is converted to a current using provided electrical parameters of the motor.There is a final current control loop that compares the actual measured current in the motor driver to the provided target current, then outputs a voltage setpoint which is used to drive the motor (>>1000hz)Adding an outside 'speed feed forward' term to the speed setpoint output of the position control loop generates a sum that can be used as the target speed of the speed control loop.Similarly, adding an outside 'torque feed forward' term to the torque setpoint is the typical way to inject more control into the current loop.I hope this helps, and gives you a different perspective than some of the other answers here that only talk about the outer most loop!For the most part, industrial servos are mostly just regular ac motors. Particularly over a kw they’re usually just built with excellent tolerances. The secret sauce comes from a resolver or an encoder or something with the drive figuring out the hard stuff. Hobby servos are all kinds of junk and some kind of tech that helps them maintain position. Any old motor, whether stepper or 3ph AC, or DC brushed or brushless or linear maglev or whatever is technically considered a servo when the drive gets position information and uses feedback to control position. Consider a stepper where the drive doesn’t typically get feedback and just energizes field windings in a particular order. If you add a resolver (or encoder) it becomes a hybrid servo. There are pure analog versions of this, so it’s not limited to digital and there are even weird implementations of matching field windings with synchros and synchro resolvers.Basically it becomes a servo when the drive is aware of the motor’s position. Algorithms and windings and whatever technologies are diverse and widely varied depending on whichever technology the engineers want to implement.PID control can be used to control position. The gains can be adjusted to achieve whatever response time you are looking for. Here is a pretty good video that goes into the application:https://youtu.be/dTGITLnYAY0Only briefly covers what PIDs are though, may need to do seperate research if you want to better understand.A servo motor is designed primarily for POSITION control. The motor is driven to a position by controlling the motor torque by varying the CURRENT fed to the motor.A PID algorithm works by trying to minimize the error between a measured value and a reference value.So in a servo motor, you send a command to tell it where you want it to be, the system measure where it is, and the PID applies the necessary current to the motor to reduce the error in position as quickly as possible without overshooting.To control speed in a servo motor, you just send a series of commands, with a constant increase in the desired target position.Acceleration and deceleration are achieved by changing the target position non-linearly at each update.Seeing how low quality the replies are in here so far is rather disappointing for a robotics subreddit. Hobbyist servomotors are, to be honest, junk. I'll give a detailed explanation of how servos are actually implemented.To start with, voltage is not what you control when it comes to motors. Motors are current driven devices, not voltage driven. 1A at 10V produces the same force as 1A at 100V. Voltage only determines your maximum RPM/Speed you are capable of achieving by giving you more headroom over backemf.Now, onto the actual algorithm. Typically, it is split into two parts. There is a trajectory generator/io manager, this is often what is called the controller even though it isn't, and the motor drives, where the actual controller exists. The trajectory generator will synchronize motor drives and generate a setpoint for position if we are controlling position and velocity or a setpoint for velocity if we are only controlling velocity. On top of one of the setpoints, it will also output an acceleration feedforward value. These setpoints and accleration feedforward values are typically generated by third order motion profiles on the trajectory generator and passed, but fourth order profiles are sometimes used as well. The trajectory generator does not send the whole profile, but instead generates setpoints while the motion is being executed and distributes these setpoints to the drives between 2KHz to 20KHz.Now, on to the actual control loop. Servos are mostly controlled via PIV control. PIV control nests three separate control loops. The first control loop is the current loop. The current loop just controls the current in the motor windings, but in a way, it can be thought of as controlling the force/torque and by extension the acceleration of the motor since current, force/torque, and acceleration are directly tied together linearly with scalar factors. This loop is controlled at least at 20Khz, but often higher. The next control loop is the velocity loop. The velocity loop is a PI controller typically with a low pass filter and potentially one or more notch filters on the output to correct for resonances and high frequency noise. The acceleration feed forward is attached to the output of the filters and should always be used. Velocity feed forward doesn't make much of a difference and can be ignored. If you only want to control velocity, you can stop here. But even with pure velocity control, I'd still recommend having the third control loop, the position controller. The position controller is only a proportional gain. No integral term. Both the velocity and position control loops are typically sampled at 5KHz to 20KHz. And if you are not using direct drive (you have ballscrews, gears, belts, etc.), you should probably be using an encoder attached to the motor for velocity control and an encoder attached to the load for position control if you care about positional accuracy. The encoders should pretty much always be optical encoders and typically should have 4000+ counts per revolution after quadrature decoding for rotary encoder or 1um or finer for linear encoders. Less is certainly usable, but your resolution is lowered to the point it can start to bite you if you are doing anything on the more precise side.Brushed DC motors are the easiest to work with because they do not need commutation and the current output by the control loop is the actual current going through the windings. However, brushed motors are fairly noisy and wear out over time, which is why 3 phase motors are typically used. 3 phase motors add more a few more steps between the current command and the actual PWM signal controlling the current in the windings through something called field oriented control. And because there are no brushes for commutation, the motor coils need to be aligned to the phases in a known orientation at powerup so that the controller knows where the motor is and can generate the correct current in each of the phases for field oriented control. Stepper motors can also be turned into servo motors by modifying the FOC algorithm for two 90 degree phases instead of the three 120 degree phases of BLDC motors.Most basic servos are open-loop and position-based and are controlled by a PWM input signal. Lots of good, google-able stuff out there.What kind of servos are you looking at using, and what are you trying to do with them?PLCs are great for running industrial motor drives in fixed, static programs, or for running programs that respond to industrial sensors relatively slowly. They're awful for things like number crunching, math beyond arithmetic, algorithmic programs, etc.Want to make a robot do a particular welding pattern 10,000x? PLC could be a good solution, but all of the hardware is hideously expensive, and most brands require expensive software and licensing fees on top of it. The hardware is also big, bulky, and power-hungry: think a full controls cabinet running on 120VAC.If you want a robot that moves around, follows a line, responds to audio or images, or have a budget <$10k, look into Arduinos and other microcontrollers. FIRST Robotics has a lot of literature and I believe some hardware packages for teaching robotics to kids.are you talking about controlling the robot's motors directly from a plc?technically, i'd say that this is possible, but it will likely be a mess for several reasons:the motor drives in a robot controller are (form my experience) poorly to not at all documented. so it may be extremely hard to tell how to interface the drives. you can of course just change them to something that you know how to use.the software on a robot controller does quite a lot of stuff, from inverse kinematics all the way to motion planning on the level of clocking/driving motors. on top of that, you also have all the monitoring and safety parts.a typical robot controller consists of a PC running some sort of real time OS and some lower level (PLC-like) hardware to interface the motors (this will vary somewhat, depending on the manufacturer. you'll need a pretty capable multi axis CNC controller if you want to replace that with a custom solution.and on top of that, if you want to replicate the capabilities of a robot controller on custom hardware, you'd be reinventing the wheel. it's a great learning experience, but i'm not sure if it's worth it.for external control, there exist socket based solutions for almost all manufacturers. UR has a pretty convenient real time interface (RTDE) that you can control from a regular PC.if you really want to use a PLC on the control end, siemens has a package that supports some manufacturers: https://www.siemens.com/global/en/products/automation/industry-software/automation-software/tia-portal/highlights/robot-integration.htmlnot sure if something equivalent exist by beckhoff of AB.Thankyou guys for explaining it so beautifully. This clears it.B&R has pretty straight forward function blocks for controlling robots. Especially if you use their P3 drivesI’m not sure about directly controlling the robot from a plc but the company I work for had us utilize an old worn out industrial robot to put metal inserts into a blown plastics mold. We had it, a UR, and the blow molding machine all connected through a PLC and we would tell the robot when to pick up the inserts and when to insert and when to wait. Again probably not what you were asking but just thought I’d shareThe TMC steppers do this implicitly, but don't expect much additional positional accuracy from microstepping. If you read the spec sheets on your motors, they most likely have a 5% rotational error tolerance. Thus microstepping above around 10 actually exceeds the positional accuracy of the motors themselves.What I've done in the past is to just use a drv8881 and a DAC to directly control the coil currents. Combined with a high resolution rotary encoder, you can do full vector control. This means you can effectively achieve the maximum possible speed for the motor given the response rate of your encoder and voltage of your source.am limited by the max step frequency of the DRV8825Really? Do you actually achieve higher rpm with coarser microstepping?You can certainly do what you're describing, but I don't think there's an issue that can be fixed this way.I think a lot of microstepper drivers do this already above a certain rpm.Reading the RAPID reference manual, there is a MOD instruction, i.e. 7 % 3 would have to be written as 7 MOD 3. I don't see any reference to a modulo operator that can be used for floating point values.Might be a MOD operator (ex.: Result := 7 MOD 3;) or might be a MOD function returning the result (ex. : Result := MOD(7, 3);). I know Codesys is MOD operator and CCW is MOD function.Sorry if I can't help but I have to say that that robot is absolutely gorgeousThere are a few people on Robotforum (specific to industrial robots) that have those, I'd try asking there:Search - Robotforum - Support and discussion community for industrial robots and cobotsChallenge auditors: But can it pass the most important test?Hand: flips the birdAuditors: checkAwesome! I love tendon based systems, out of interest why did you choose that over the alternativesThe japanese mafia got to it.Looks cool. I would love to do something like this someday. :)✋🏼!That's a project I wouldn't mind doing myself at some point.I don't have much advice for you except that I'd suggest going easy on the sensors if you want to keep the cost and complexity down. Look into state space control and estimation methods(I'd recommend steve brunton's control bootcamp on youtube as a start). Decide if there's a subset of the degrees of freedom you actually want to observe and control, build an observability matrix using the sensors you have in mind, and then compute its rank and maybe its Gramian to see if it works well enough. Do this for all sensor combinations and you should be able to reduce the number of sensors required to build a workable state observer model.Outside of that, build a stick model in matlab(or python I guess) that you can use to simulate your system. You'll need to do some tinkering with the gait of the robot to make it walk in a stable and performant way. Your simulation data can also tell you how powerful the servos need to be.P.S. There might be an easier way. I'm new to this sub and not super familiar with the community or existing technology. All I really know is how I'd go about building this from scratch.I have built pretty much what your talking about, here’s a video of it. I also have sufficiently advanced gait algorithms and an inverse kinematics solver along with a home-made 3D engine to visualize it (all in python). I am also in the middle of sourcing new servos for it. I’m typing this on my phone, so if you want to talk about it more I can give my discord name, if you have that.I’m 18 :) Our team at college is just getting started on a quadruped as well. We were planning to go ahead with dynamixel servos. And do some basic simulations on ROS . Any suggestions/tutorials ( maybe to minimise cost and improve stability ) would be really helpful.I was gonna tell you about open dog, but you already know about that series don't you? In any case, it's always better to start with simulations, even if you want to start right away I'd still recommend you download the got for the opendog project and take a good look at it, maybe drop it in a simulation environment to be able to scale it down properly?I would definitely go the other way around from what you're thinking, first decide on design and simulate it, then find motors to match what you need.I keep thinking about Rexroth motors for some reason but they would be complete overkill for your project, even though they have some amazing servos integrated with encoders from the factory.There are always those standard steppers from 3d printers, worst case scenario you just put two of them adding up on each joint, although I think you could find some 1kg ones if you look for it.I'm sorry I couldn't help more. I just tend to cannibalize any printers I have around and figure out ways to put several motors on the same joint. :/At 17 you have more marketable skills than I do at 23 with a MEng in mechanical engineering. Jesus Christ man, keep doing whatever you're doing and you're going to be minted at 25Encoders are generally very accurate, more so than an imu. Imu's are notoriously noisy. Generally the measurement that you can get out of an IMU is your orientation, thought it does a poor job estimating yaw.My advice would be to check to see if you are missing encoder tics or if the wheels are slipping. Once you confirm those are not an issue, then you should add in the imu using something like a kalman filter.Finally depending on how long you need this system to be accurate for you will probably need to do something like SLAM or VIO.What encoder are you using? Show us a photo of the physical setup.I would use an encoder that has a SPI interface or similar.I’ve used encoders on quite a few projects but mostly use optical encoders. For applications with a low signal rate I can use the interrupts with little issue. If you have a high signal rate or need to not lose steps I swap over to the LS7366r. There are libraries out there for it that make it so much easier. If you’re looking to do accurate odometer I’d go with the LS7366 to offload the computation.https://www.superdroidrobots.com/electrical-parts/Encoders-Accessories/Buffer-Pull-up-Boards/product=2397You could perhaps attach the step pin to one of the timer pins set to PWM mode and change the CCR register on each loop iteration? This will make the stepping operation non blockingI would imagine there is a upper limit to how fast you can toggle the STEP pin to step the motor so you would need to constrain your valuesMissing picturesAll instructions and files are hereHow/Where did you learn to model like this?Looks lika an interesting project. I would be interested into learning how whole platform works. It's like everything running on ESP32 on MicroROS? Or where is the ROS2 navigation based and how it's connected to phone or tablet?I wish it will be an affordable platform for every young roboticist.great design! :)Cool project!! thanks for sharing!!Awesome! Thank you so much for sharingAs others have said, C++ and Python are the major languages used, especially if you're using ROS. If you go to lower-level embedded control, you're going to use C or C++, depending on your hardware platform.By itself, C++'s learning curve can be a little steep if you don't have experience in programming, so you probably should start doing it in Python, if given the option. (Edit: by "should start in Python", I don't mean you shouldn't learn C++. It's a very important language and you should definitely learn it as well. See u/KindaOffKey's response on the differences between both. I just think that, if you're not from a CS/CE background, it can be overwhelming to learn both programming basics and C++'s intricacies at once.)About courses, I don't have any to recommend, but you can search for online resources on ROS development with simulations on Gazebo, as it would be a good starting point on the tools used for robotics development in the academia/industry.I have a Bachelor's degree in Mechanical Engineering and am currently doing my Master's degree in Robotics.I'm almost exclusively using C++ and Python (also Matlab, but that's something you need to actively avoid). While yes, Python is (a lot) easier than C++, I started with C++ and can't say I regret it. Python is easier because it handles a lot of things you need to deal with yourself in C++. Knowing what those things are makes you a better Python developer (imo), and in C++ you're forced to learn them.As for the roles of the two languages, in my limited experience: Python is a lot more suited for single, relatively straightforward tasks, these sort of things are much much faster to do in Python. C++ is a lot better suited for developing on on-board computers with limited resources, real-time constraints and multiple processes, where you can optimize the shit out of it.For courses, any introductory course to programming is of course a great start. What I think is immensely useful (and I'm still lacking) are courses about proper software development, i.e. things as Software Architecture, OOP, Design Patterns, etc. For Robotics specifically, a course in ROS wouldn't hurt, although the tutorials are already very useful.If you're serious about Software Development, courses alone aren't enough. Projects are great, but just as important (if not more) is reading other people's code. Try to really understand what's going on, and why the developer chose to do things the way he did. This'll boosts your learning enormously.A lot of people have been saying C++ and python for ROS but it is also important to learn Linux, especially Ubuntu 16.04 which is the best platform to use ROS on. Although its not a language, command line is very different and a lot more powerful than the GUI we are used to and you should start playing around with it like asap.It depends, if you have something simple or want to "glue" all together then Python, C/C++ is my favorite option since everything has an interface with those two languages, also using ROS helps you a lot to unify everything.I suggest you to learn C/C++ because you can write the driver that you need for custom made hardware, and whenever you need to run near Real-Time this is your best option.For my last project I also did some specific calculations with FORTRAN and C/C++. But it was to keep the frecuency for a discrete control strategy.I'm also from mechanical engineering, and currently doing masters in Robotics. I guess the question on which programming language to follow has been answered conclusively, so I won't go there. As far as it comes down to courses you should take for robotics, it depends on which side you want to tilt on.If it's hardware focused, then a few electronics courses along with your mechanical curriculum should suffice. Specifically courses which go into kinematics and dynamics on the mechanical side, and digital signal processing and control theory on electrical side. You could top that up with a course on Manipulator design and control, and a similar one for autonomous vehicles.If it's software focused, start with data structures and algorithms and get oriented with ROS. The control of the robot is the main focus here, so do a control course too. Follow that up with a course which takes up path planning/SLAM. The distinct thing on the software side is that you can really dive deep into deep and reinforcement learning. Among a host of their uses, deep learning is used on vision and reinforcement learning for map-less navigation and control.Generally courses which are offered have elements of both (mech and cs) sides, so you should get a good idea of both in your undergrad.I work as a robot programmer full time. I Mainly work on ABB robots. I have worked on KUKA and fanucs to. Try to understand how the RAPID language is written. Download Robot studio for ABB's and do some tutorials on youtube its not a bad way to start off.I would say c++ and python are the major ones.I would strongly recommend python because I worked on a project on making a moving humanoid robot. We programmed in pytho.it is a easy to learn languageAwesomeHave you did kinematics for this robot?!Great post, and great work!I am somewhat familiar with the RB5 platform, but it is not clear to me what the difference is to the RB6. The RB5 also has a RB5165 inside, has 5G connectivity, DSP acceleration etc.Does it support ROS2 as well?I’d recommend posting this on ROS Discourse to get this across to more usersHow is this different from the the official unity for robotics? https://github.com/Unity-Technologies/Unity-Robotics-HubMy brother in christ just buy a metal shaftHeat the bearing and try freezing the shaft. Or sand the shaft.Personally I think that you should use some kind of metal rod or shaft like this one and make your designs around it.If the metal shaft is not an option then you can sand down the 3D printed part slowly with something like 220 grit sand paper until you get a fit that you are happy with. I would also do it to the inside of the part that the bearing will sit inside of as I suspect that will also be a very tight fit for the bearing.From what I see, the shaft needs to be honed. Worse case, put it into the drill and apply fine sandpaper.Maybe if the shaft takes her out to dinner first, the bearing will be more receptive.Is there a methodYes, tolerances :)If it's 3d printed, aside from making it actually smaller like people mentioned, ABS shrinks after printing so some programs automatically compensate for this. Be aware that it could vary from filament to filament. ABS shrinks 11%.