That depends on how you program it.Every shop I have worked in has always been the difference between ideal and real goes in cutter comp. Precisely to prevent the above issue. Should only ever have a couple thou in cutter comp unless running regrinds.I guess you could do it another way, but it would be a pain in the butt to correct during production. I didn't write the program anyways, just kinda tried to wing it.Who's letting you run a CNC without knowing what cutter comp is? This is totally their fault, not yours.Literally day 1 or 2 of entry level operator.Distance to go distance to go always check your distance to go!!!!Or run it above the job in fresh air "just to check"Yes, if you're using cutter comp the machine needs to know the size of the cutter.Depends on if you are running cutter comp and part edge or centerline codeI have the luxury of using machines with tool setters built in, and I use them. For our other machines in the shop, we use a tool cataloging system that already has runout sorted, as well as all of our tool data and tool holder data sorted. Rather than signing out tools to employees who might work on different machines, we just sign them out to the machines. Everything is accessable by our phones and it makes all of the sorting much easier since we don't need PC's for all of our machines.I doesn't matter how basic of a setup always air cut/dry run above the part.It'd be a bit of a nuisance on the 100hour cycle time jobs I do lolWhat does Fanuc have to do with it?Your CAM method determines whether your control needs to know the dia of the tool. And that goes for all controls, not just Fanuc.Depends on how it's programmed. It's usually better to compensate in the program itself, that way your offset is just the difference between nominal and actual...but it means your code won't directly match the geometry on your drawing. Some folks find that confusing, and would rather stick the entire cutter radius into your offset page.The surface on your Part Looks very shitty.. try a lathe for better quality.Crazy thing about machines they only know what you tell them.Nice random unlabeled sectioned iso viewZero comp or nothing. I can't stand a programmer that uses radius comp.UNLESS standardized in a shop with a comparator to get the TIR and diameter values perfect.Always program to spindle center, and you don’t have to worry about it.Fanuc is not magician :)Haas is just a Fanuc with bad mazatrol canned cycles.AccurateThat's what CAM is for.They (Haas) have a great YouTube channel with a lot of good information on basics and how to navigate their controls.Just go to YouTube and type "how to use Haas controller." Dozens of great videos to choose from. Pretty similar to a Fanuc. Much easier than Mazatrol's 20 softkeys to load a program user interface.Props to haas for actually having an up to date YouTube page with relevant tutorials and explanations.You can figure out everything you need to learn about a haas through their YouTube page.Haas does a “tip of the day series” that has a ton of useful info as wellHere is Haas’ programming workbook. It has gotten me out of many jams.You'll pick it up quicklyI found this video last night while trying to learn about mills myself. Hopefully it helps!!HAAS tip of the day is a good place to start.You aren't gonna have many issues coming from a Fanuc.NGC Haas is a little laggy, but nothing you don't get used to quickly.Haas is not much different from Fanuc. You'll be fine.Good news, Haas uses FANUC syntax by default (there’s also a setting that can change it to YASNAC)I had a Tormach them bought a HAAS. A week on YouTube and I learned a ton. The NGC looked intimidating at first but it’s fairly simple.I’ve programmed Makino HMC’s and a lot of different Haas. Which Makino controller were you on? I’ve found I much prefer the Pro6 of the Makino to either of the Haas controllers we have, which includes the NGC.As for the programming, they’re very similar. If you’re doing macro-b it’s almost the same syntax across the board, with a few quirks. Sometimes Haas doesn’t like “1.” inside brackets, but instead it’s just “1” which I think is dumb. Haas has more canned cycles for counterbores and engraving and things of that nature, but if you’re on CAM that stuff doesn’t matter too much. Good luck! It really shouldn’t scare you. I’m sure you’ll do great with all that experience.Basic principles are mostly same. Canned cycles may have different letters but it should not be an issueAfter a few weeks you should be good. Our shop has fanuc , yaskawa, siemens machines and i learned on a haas. Lathes usually are shorter programs that i hand type sometimes but milling i use mastercam.I dont usually use the machine to actually write programs because they are not very intuitive . I mean i learned to use them for the heck of it but it is so much easier with mastercam and autocad.HAAS YouTube channel. Between the crappy conversational controls and mastercam you don’t need to learn Gcode. This is how I do it. I can’t look myself in the mirror without feeling like a hack but I make chips. 😂It’s like 1/3 the button pushes as a fanuc. From a user interface it runs circles around the fanuc, and has a bazillion quality of life features that are handy. From a motion control or speed standpoint it’s a turd strapped to a turd of a machine. That being said, because of how fast it is to use, it’s still my go to choice if the part isn’t super fussy. I also happen to think the enclosures are pretty decent too. Big windows, easy maintenance, good light, just wish they had better motion and a more rigid design. lol you lean on the spindle or pull a wrench on the table and the indicator moves.you must have got a manual with the machine.imgI use it to engrave occasionally. The only pain with it is that the serial number won't incrementally increase by itself so I have to edit each one manuallyCheck youtube.comI did. All the tutorials I could I find on engraving are on mills. Not lathes.Manual guide i?Fanuc “conversational” programmingEzguid I. Manual guide I, whatever you want to call it. The button on my machine says “EZG-I”.You have made any sub programs for every alphabets?. Damn Haas has made it so easy to engrave parts.Should be just M98 P(program #) ; I can't imagine you would need to turn on a parameter to do that.Was thinking the same thing. There shouldn't be anything special about calling a sub with Fanuc controls.We have 10 robodrills in our shop and I have never been able to do subroutines. All of our Doosans with the Fanuc 0i controls allow subs. But not the robo control..If the sub programs are in a different folder than the main program AND parameter 3457.0-3457.3 are all set to 1 you the machine won't find them.If the programs are in a user created folder, the machine won't find them unless the parent program is in there as well.It shouldn't be a problem. There are a couple things to keep in mind when you are doing this.One is to make sure Paramert 3457 bit 7 is a 1 and bit 6-0 are all 0. This turns the search function on and makes the other standard folders (mtb1 mtb2 library system) accessible.The folder system will allow you to have multiple programs of the same number as long as they are in different folders. This WILL confuse the machine if you try and call them with a subprogram.If you create a folder, that folder is not searchable. Meaning if your main program does not reside in that folder you created that contains your sub programs, it will no find them.make sure that you have program numbers and not program names. A fanuc control will allow you to use program names and it is very easy to input a name instead of a number. If you accidently P Set to O1000.NC instead of F set the top of your program will show<O1000.NC> (Dopest sub program) Shit to cut M99 %Edit:Seeing that the OP wants to emulate M97 Px on a Haas, I have a solution that I've tested on 0i and 31i controls, that I can loosely cover and if interested can dig up the info.Fanuc controls have a select set of 6000 series parameters that allow for custom G and M codes. Some can only be the code, some allow variables.I have customers who wanted to do just this so I created M97 in the parameters.When the machine reads the M97 P it calls a sub program and Passes the P to that sub which uses machine variable #4000 (main O; program) and simply readM98 P#4000 Q#16 (I have to look this up the P variable exists but isn't published as far as I can tell)What you are left with is something that operates as close to an M97 as you can get outside of a haas.I'm not familiar with HAAS controls but this sounds like what M99 Pxxxx does in main program in the Fanuc control. It will jump to a line beginning with Nxxxx. There is no return with a simple M99 so it would have to be done with logical programming to go back up or anywhere else if needed. I mainly use it to skip a reamer I didn't need because the drill made it to size but the reamer is there just in case.N10 M99 P1000N20 ...cutting stuff skipped...N30 M99 PxxxxN40 ...cutting stuff skipped...N1000...more cutting stuff...Yellow caps are the OLD DC servos.They were damned reliable.Guess so cause its still in use!I havent seen one of those in a long time!