It has some differences, but the vast majority is the same. Like tool calls/tool length comp/rotating etc will look different, mine also takes only mpf files but the learning curve is small. Operating it will be different, not programming as much.Plus, programming will be the same, the post for mastercam will do all the work for you. They should know that too, so I’m guessing they want more than just a programmer.Yeah, cause if it was just a programmer position then control wouldn't make a big difference.What does the tool calls look likeM06 T10G43 H10G41 D10Different from this I take it??Thanks for the help, I appreciate it. It would be like a 10 dollar an hour raise if I got the job!The syntax will differ between each machine tool manufacturer and potentially can differ between 840D PL and 840D SL.I work for an OEM and my tool change call is TCH_G(xx), cutter geometry and cutter comp is called by a custom variable, unique to my machine tool brand.Your question is contingent to how the OEM manages this.Post 'should' do most of the work for you, but I'm finding my postability post and mastercam to an extent to be mostly garbage. Actually mastercam has always been garbage...Anyways my configuration has trouble with posting cycles. Especially Cycle832(). Don't get me started on mixing mill and lathe portions without the mill-turn package...Siemens has documentation freely and readily available if you look for it.Have you got a deadman’s switch that is wired in. My 840d has a switch on the back that may need to be enabled to select the x1, x10, x100 after pressing jog on the panel.No help here. Just wanted to say I hate there software. Same here , There always some alarms...One of your remote pedestals or screens needs to be reset, or reconnectedI rechecked manytimes everything is connectedMay I ask what Siemens control? If it is an 828 or 840 or maybe even a "sinumerik one" But no matter wich one it is when you find out how Siemens makes sense you can get the control to do pretty much anything. Especially if it is an 840d.It's 828d. I have used the same controller on an almost similar Jyoti CNC at a different shop before too, this is a very versatile one.One of the main jobs for this will be machining rope threads on couplers and drivers.I've only ever seen the 828D which is very similar to the 840Dsl. There have been many advancements made to the Siemens control as a whole in the last ten or so years. I speak very highly of them because they're a really great control. The conversational, however, I'm a little iffy about because I'm biased from my days on Mazak mills and Mori conversational is also quite good. Shopmill leaves some to be desired when coming from those systems.Download sinutrain and use the trial version to get a feel for it.Is the Sinutrain a shopmill system or like a sinumerik?