Help me please. I have a client who bought a swiss type machine TAike SA 265 with CNC SYNTEC210TBE, but does not have a post processor for it. Who can develop a post processor for SolidCAM? or recommend someone who can develop one. Thanks!Read moreHi everyone. So I’m starting to look into milling machines for after I graduate, if you don’t need my whole life story, I don’t know whether to go with Siemens or Syntec. I’m looking at the SYIL X7 or X9, Magazine ATC, Renishaw tool and part probing. and there’s a high possibility for a 4th axis or 5th reunion in the future. I use fusion for CAM.The only thing I’m not experienced with and can’t find any information with is that I’m torn between the Syntec controller option and the Siemens Controller option. I don’t see myself doing conversational too much, but it is in the cards and I have used it on the machines at college. From what I can tell the Siemens 808 is a bit nicer and more intuitive for UI, but as far as physical interface the Syntec seems nicer and I like the staging and current tool monitor as well as the start stop button placement.For my experiences I am very well acclimated with the Hurco winMAX system as I’ve run a VM20i 4th axis often and it’s by far my favorite interface from button placement to panel orientation to UI and even conversational, how easy part probing is. I’m decently acquainted with the HAAS controller as I’ve ran the VF3 2+3 axis a bit. I also use a haas TL lathe at work and a tormach slant pro lathe.All thoughts and opinions are appreciated!!Hi,Can anyone offer some input on sourcing a 5 axis tilting rotary table or 5 axis indexer that is compatible with the Syil X7 outfitted with a Syntec 22MA controller. I know SilverCNC is the usual go to, however unfortunately their lead time is too long. The minimum size for the table would be 6 inches.Anybody out there has a CNC with a 4th axis that rotate around the y-axis who also uses fusion 360 to generate their g-code?I am having trouble finding a post processor will work…Appreciate any help that anyone might be able to provide.Hoping to get a little info here. I've written a warm-up program for the spindle on the CNC but I cannot get the dwell code (G04) to work. I have tried both P and X with no results. I even generated a program with a drill with dwell set in vcarve and one without and the code is no different so my post processor isn't even set up for it. Anyone here has a program they could reference or their own warm up code they could post?