Solidcam already supports and has a post for some swiss machines. The third party reseller is responsible for creating the post, sort of how that racket works.Part makerIMHO, I'd just pick the siemens controller. It is more widely used and has more resources online for it. Physical interface should not be much of a thought because it is all down to muscle memory after a few weeks.Having one controller be the odd one out makes that entire machine the one no one wants to run because the controller is "hard". I've seen it at a few shops where one guy ends up running it because he is the only one who knows the controller.Thank you :)Both controls are good.The Syntec is lesser know in N. America than in China. (In China its the 2nd most popular control, behind Fanuc)With the Siemens control, you will be paying a premium for everything. Not sure there is an advantage for the price.The Part Probe with the Syil is Pioneer?, if you want a Renishaw, you will have to buy and install that separately. That was my choice on my Syil.In the end, the "Control" is just an interface. Unless you are "Long Hand" programming at the control, the impact is not much.IMO get the Syntec spend the saving on the good Holders and Fixtures.Yes I was going to purchase a renishaw, that’s what I’ve been using on all our machines here and I like them a lot, unless you think it’s probably better to just get the pioneer?I believe you need the 220ma controller for 5 axis, at least that's what I've seen on the fb group. If not, I'd wait on silvercnc. I have their 4th axis and zero point plates and it's excellentWhat is that? A SYIL or something?You may be able to use a generic 4ax mill post. Would have to configure the machine to have the rotary in the YB orientation, but they're nothing special afaik. Editing fusion posts is ezpz. The NYCCNC dork has a great video on how to use visual studio code to debug and troubleshoot post processors.Thanks for the tips. It's an Acctek machine from China.U sometimes worksIf you write simple code G04 X2500; (2.5 seconds) M00;Will this work?